Original English: A black box in your car?
Translated Hindi: Black box in your car is a new technology that is used to monitor your driving style. The black box will record speed and any sudden acceleration or braking, and that information will be downloaded on to a computer and used to determine the cost of your insurance policy.
Hindi: आपके

Original English: As America's road planners struggle to find the cash to mend a crumbling highway system, many are beginning to see a solution in a little black box that fits neatly by the dashboard of your car.
Translated Hindi: The black box is an in-vehicle unit that monitors the driver's behavior and records it on a so-called "black box" similar to the one in a plane. The box sends its data to insurance companies, which can then use the information to tailor insurance rates to each driver's performance. The

Original English: The devices, which track every mile a motorist drives and transmit that information to bureaucrats, are at the center of a controversial attempt in Washington and state planning offices to overhaul the outdated system for funding America's major roads.
Translated Hindi: The idea is to charge drivers according to how much they use the highway system, with the goal of reducing the $317 billion in funding that states must find each year to pay for road construction and maintenance. Under plans being considered by Congress and state transportation officials, states are expected to begin requiring drivers to

Original English: The usually dull arena of highway planning has suddenly spawned intense debate and colorful alliances.
Translated Hindi: The common denominator is a proposal to build a new toll road across the Smoky Mountains. The private sector wants to build and run it. A coalition of local governments, businesses and environmentalists wants to keep it off the ground. The new road would cut a 40-mile path through the Smokies

Original English: Libertarians have joined environmental groups in lobbying to allow government to use the little boxes to keep track of the miles you drive, and possibly where you drive them - then use the information to draw up a tax bill.
Translated Hindi: They also propose making it impossible to buy a car without such a device. You are probably thinking that this is crazy. What if the government sells the information to marketers, and you didn't read the fine print on the contract and now your privacy is violated. However, the government has already been doing

Original English: The tea party is aghast.
Translated Hindi: The Chinese are more than aghast. The Chinese are angry. The Chinese are ready to fight. The Chinese are coming. The Chinese are here.
Hindi: कटव आर न ल ग. च न एकद श

Original English: The American Civil Liberties Union is deeply concerned, too, raising a variety of privacy issues.
Translated Hindi: The American Civil Liberties Union is deeply concerned, raising a number of privacy issues, too.
Hindi:
विद्वान: आमिरिका सावरकर मानवाधिकार परिष

Original English: And while Congress can't agree on whether to proceed, several states are not waiting.
Translated Hindi: They are beginning to implement their own health reform plans. In California, the Lieutenant Governor and State Treasurer are co-chairing an effort to come up with a plan to provide affordable health care for all Californians by 2010. In Colorado, the Governor is on the same page. He is urging

Original English: They are exploring how, over the next decade, they can move to a system in which drivers pay per mile of road they roll over.
Translated Hindi: It would be a fairer way to spread the cost of motoring than the current fuel tax.
Hindi: वे अगले दशक की अवधि के लिए वहाँ ज

Original English: Thousands of motorists have already taken the black boxes, some of which have GPS monitoring, for a test drive.
Translated Hindi: While the governments and insurance companies are eagerly waiting for the results, some car manufacturers have already begun to use the black boxes as a marketing tool.
Hindi: इस प्रकार अब पुराने डाइवर ने

Original English: This really is a must for our nation.
Translated Hindi: People must be made aware of the ecological imbalance that is being created by the corporate houses. There is no doubt that if things continue the way they are, the earth would be a very difficult place to live in.
Hindi: Aisa lagta hai ki yeh desh ke liye ek

Original English: "It is not a matter of something we might choose to do," said Hasan Ikhrata, executive director of the Southern California Assn. of Governments, which is planning for the state to start tracking miles driven by every California motorist by 2025.
Translated Hindi: "It is a matter of necessity. We must know how people are moving to plan the future. That information is the key to growth in a sustainable manner."
Hindi: "यह हमारे जीवन को एक मोज

Original English: There is going to be a change in how we pay these taxes.
Translated Hindi: The new system will be as follows:
1. All existing taxes will be done away with and a single tax called the Goods and Services Tax (GST) will be levied.
2. It will be levied on all goods and services.
3. All goods shall be taxed at zero rates.

Original English: The technology is there to do it.
Translated Hindi: It is possible to have a
technology that is not based on the use of toxic chemicals.
Hindi: वह तकनीक है कि इसके लिए का यह नहीं है कि

Original English: The push comes as the country's Highway Trust Fund, financed with taxes Americans pay at the gas pump, is broke.
Translated Hindi: The fund covers about 40 percent of the cost of highway and bridge projects across the country and is expected to be exhausted by late summer. The Obama administration says the country will need to spend $1 trillion on transportation infrastructure over the next decade to keep up with demand. It estimates that the $302

Original English: Americans don't buy as much gas as they used to.
Translated Hindi: They're not buying as much gas because they're driving less. They're driving less because the price of gas is so high. The high price of gas is why the price of gas is so high.
Hindi: अमरीका एक बार ज

Original English: Cars get many more miles to the gallon.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: गाज़र का भी सबसे ज्यादा अंदर चलता है.
9. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The part of the story that we

Original English: The federal tax itself, 18.4 cents per gallon, hasn't gone up in 20 years.
Translated Hindi: But transportation advocates say the buying power of the tax has declined by half since it was last raised in 1993.
Hindi: Federal tax kiya, 18.4 cents per gallon, 20 saal se bar bar nahin hua hai. Lekin transportlekhak

Original English: Politicians are loath to raise the tax even one penny when gas prices are high.
Translated Hindi: But they are willing to cut taxes when gas prices are low.
Hindi: Kisan Ko Bhi Gas Ki Tarah Koi Bharpai Nahin Hota, Par Aadarsh Aur Xatrayi Logon Ko Gas Ki Tarah Koi Fasi Patravali Nah

Original English: "The gas tax is just not sustainable," said Lee Munnich, a transportation policy expert at the University of Minnesota.
Translated Hindi: "You can't have a tax that's based on a commodity that you burn in your car and have it be inflation-proof."
Hindi: "गैस टैक्स बहुत याचिकाओं की ज

Original English: His state recently put tracking devices on 500 cars to test out a pay-by-mile system.
Translated Hindi: It charges drivers for every mile they drive. This method is thought to be fairer than paying a flat fee.
Hindi: उसके राज्य का अब तक एक सब्सिडी का

Original English: "This works out as the most logical alternative over the long term," he said.
Translated Hindi: "But it is a massive change of direction for us and it is not going to be easy. We will have to get the public to accept this."
Hindi: "Yah samajh mein aa raha hai ki is se aage ki baat ke liye bahut hi log

Original English: Wonks call it a mileage-based user fee.
Translated Hindi: You might call it a gas tax. But it’s much more than that. The new tax would be assessed based on how many miles you drive in a year, not how much gas you buy. It’s an alternative to the gas tax that’s being considered by Congress, and it’s gaining traction

Original English: It is no surprise that the idea appeals to urban liberals, as the taxes could be rigged to change driving patterns in ways that could help reduce congestion and greenhouse gases, for example.
Translated Hindi: However, the VAT on petroleum products may be too risky at this time.
Hindi: यह एक रहानी रहा है कि इसके लिए आपसी प्रदेश

Original English: California planners are looking to the system as they devise strategies to meet the goals laid out in the state's ambitious global warming laws.
Translated Hindi: The California Air Resources Board has adopted a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. The state Legislature has set a goal of reducing emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. The reductions will be achieved by reducing the amount of oil used by the state's

Original English: But Rep. Bill Shuster (R-Pa.), chairman of the House Transportation Committee, has said he, too, sees it as the most viable long-term alternative.
Translated Hindi: “We need to move people, and as of right now, it looks like this is the best way to do it,” he said. “We all need to get on the same page.”
Hindi: लेकिन रिप्र. बिल श

Original English: The free marketeers at the Reason Foundation are also fond of having drivers pay per mile.
Translated Hindi: And their reasoning is a bit different. It's that the more miles you drive, the more wear and tear you do to the roads. So pay up. The cost of this system would be high: a computerized fee-collection device would be installed in every vehicle, and probably you'd have to

Original English: "This is not just a tax going into a black hole," said Adrian Moore, vice president of policy at Reason.
Translated Hindi: "It's a tax that's going to punish all of these kinds of economic activity that we want to promote."
Hindi: "Yeh sirf aajib hai ki ye tax ek black hole ke liye jata hai", Adrain Moore, Reason ki policy ke president ke baare

Original English: People are paying more directly into what they are getting.
Translated Hindi: As a result, services are improving.
Hindi: Logon ko aksar beopar insaanon ko aksar dena padta hain. Is ke karan, uss men parivartan hua
hai. Is se sabhi seva men adh

Original English: The movement is also bolstered by two former U.S. Transportation secretaries, who in a 2011 report urged Congress to move in the pay-per-mile direction.
Translated Hindi: “It will provide a more accurate picture of the driver’s actual usage of highways and roads and provide a more accurate picture of a driver’s actual usage of highways and roads and provide a more equitable distribution of the cost of road maintenance and construction,” it said.
Hindi: यह व

Original English: The U.S. Senate approved a $90-million pilot project last year that would have involved about 10,000 cars.
Translated Hindi: The program was designed to prove that cars could be equipped with devices to block cellphone use. But the project was scrapped, after a government agency said it would cost too much to collect information needed to conclude that the devices work. The devices, called signal jammers, would have prevented mobile phones from sending

Original English: But the House leadership killed the proposal, acting on concerns of rural lawmakers representing constituents whose daily lives often involve logging lots of miles to get to work or into town.
Translated Hindi: That is the one reason the town of Big Butte, Mont., does not have a public high school. The school district is in the Flathead Valley, a 44-mile drive from town. The school district, which had 406 students as of 2013, is too small to have

Original English: Several states and cities are nonetheless moving ahead on their own.
Translated Hindi: And the federal government should make it possible for those efforts to succeed.
Hindi: वेबी प्रदेशों और महानगरों इसके अन्तर्गत कई

Original English: The most eager is Oregon, which is enlisting 5,000 drivers in the country's biggest experiment.
Translated Hindi: The state will permit self-driving cars without a human driver. Oregon's law requires that a driver be behind the wheel, ready to take over. But it does not specify that the driver must be human. California is considering a bill to permit self-driving cars on its roads and sidewalks. Google has already

Original English: Those drivers will soon pay the mileage fees instead of gas taxes to the state.
Translated Hindi: They will be charged by the miles they drive.
Hindi: Unke drivers milege fee (miles fee) bharne wale hain. Unhe khud se milege milege fee (miles fee) dene honge.
(10) Translate the following text

Original English: Nevada has already completed a pilot.
Translated Hindi: They found that large numbers of people were turned away because they didn’t have a SSN card, and it was very labor-intensive.
Hindi: नव य न या क ज र ज र ज र ज र ज

Original English: New York City is looking into one.
Translated Hindi: It would be the first of many.
Hindi: न्यू यॉर्क स्टेट लोकल ऑनलाइन रूपें में एक खोजी

Original English: Illinois is trying it on a limited basis with trucks.
Translated Hindi: But, if you like it and it works out, you'll probably see it on more and more cars in the future.
Hindi: Illinois par 1 limited basis par truck ko try karte hai. Lekin agar aapko chahiye aur wo kaam karne wale

Original English: And the I-95 Coalition, which includes 17 state transportation departments along the Eastern Seaboard (including Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Florida), is studying how they could go about implementing the change.
Translated Hindi: The coalition is studying whether to convert the Interstate to a toll road or simply to add tolls to existing roads.
Hindi: और I-95 कॉआलेट , जिसने 17 राज्य स्थान

Original English: The concept is not a universal hit.
Translated Hindi: Not all people like it.
Hindi: Concept bahut popular nahi hai. Sab log isse pasand nahi karte hai.

In the above example, the word concept is converted into a Hindi word concept. So, the translated sentence would be translated into the following:

English: Concept

Original English: In Nevada, where about 50 volunteers' cars were equipped with the devices not long ago, drivers were uneasy about the government being able to monitor their every move.
Translated Hindi: The volunteers were paid a few dollars for their trouble. In California, drivers were offered free gasoline or a $20 gift certificate.
Hindi: Nevada mein, jahan par baar baar 50 volunteers ke car mein ye device lagaye gaye thay, vah drivers ko lagta

Original English: "Concerns about Big Brother and those sorts of things were a major problem," said Alauddin Khan, who directs strategic and performance management at the Nevada Department of Transportation.
Translated Hindi: "Now we have the data, and the data is telling us it’s working. We have a good story to tell." Hindi: "Dhansoo, Big Brother aur uska usi ka bharose ko lekar jankari ke liye buri tarah ki paresh

Original English: It was not something people wanted.
Translated Hindi: It was something they needed. It was a weapon against the darkness. And they deserved it. The angels had left the earth far too long. It was their turn to fight.
Hindi: Yeh koi aapki chaahat ke liye nahi tha. Yeh aap

Original English: As the trial got underway, the ACLU of Nevada warned on its website: "It would be fairly easy to turn these devices into full-fledged tracking devices."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अभी प्रत्यक्ष शिक्षा फ़ाइलें प्राप्त हो रही हैं। कोई नहीं

Original English: There is no need to build an enormous, unwieldy technological infrastructure that will inevitably be expanded to keep records of individuals' everyday comings and goings.
Translated Hindi: As a matter of fact, the very purpose of biometric technology is to create such a database. The software is designed to collect and store a large amount of biometric data. It is not easy to manipulate or duplicate biometric data, but it is even harder to keep this information from being used

Original English: Nevada is among several states now scrambling to find affordable technology that would allow the state to keep track of how many miles a car is being driven, but not exactly where and at what time.
Translated Hindi: The technology is needed to implement recent laws in California and New York that require drivers to pay for the miles they drive, often called “pay as you drive” or “mileage based” insurance.
Hindi: नवजेरो यजमान म

Original English: If you can do that, Khan said, the public gets more comfortable.
Translated Hindi: You can get them to accept things that are different, and that’s the key to open up this entire business.
Hindi: यह तो एक अनोखा रीत बताने में भी उ

Original English: The hunt for that technology has led some state agencies to a small California startup called True Mileage.
Translated Hindi: This is a technology that can allow the owner of the car to track the distance traveled by the car, and the cost of fuel used along with the time of travel. This technology can also provide information about the carbon dioxide emissions produced by the car through the distance traveled. This technology uses a small trans

Original English: The firm was not originally in the business of helping states tax drivers.
Translated Hindi: But in the United States, Congress passed a law requiring Uber to share its ride data with local governments, which it did. Now, the firm is reportedly helping the city of London establish a new tax on drivers.
Hindi: जिस रहस्यमय

Original English: It was seeking to break into an emerging market in auto insurance, in which drivers would pay based on their mileage.
Translated Hindi: The company’s first product, the OnStar subscription service, appeared in 1996. It was a bundle of technologies that included an in-vehicle device that monitored vehicle performance and location. OnStar subscribers could use the device to summon assistance. In 1997, the company launched the OnStar

Original English: But the devices it is testing appeal to highway planners because they don't use GPS and deliver a limited amount of information, uploaded periodically by modem.
Translated Hindi: In addition to tracking vehicles, the devices can be used to monitor trucks, buses, and other vehicles that generate traffic. They also can be used to monitor assets, such as trailers, and to notify the driver if the unit is moved.
Hindi: लेकिन वह

Original English: "People will be more willing to do this if you do not track their speed and you do not track their location," said Ryan Morrison, chief executive of True Mileage.
Translated Hindi: "We are trying to get more people to use it."
Hindi: "Kisi bhi prakar ki gadiyon ki chalai mein lage rahen, agar aap kisi bhi tarah ki gadiyon ki chalai mein lage rah

Original English: There have been some big mistakes in some of these state pilot programs.
Translated Hindi: We are actually spending an enormous amount of money in states like Tennessee, where they are in their second year of the program, and they have not been able to get any of the students off of the waiting list. In California, a year later, they have still not been able to get any of

Original English: There are a lot less expensive and less intrusive ways to do this.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह बहुत कम और निजी के लिए इस तरह के बहुत कम बहुत कम है।

I'm really

Original English: In Oregon, planners are experimenting with giving drivers different choices.
Translated Hindi: Some drivers can choose a free, regular lane. Others can choose a cash lane. The cash lane is faster. But the free lane is more popular.
Hindi: ऑर १९५६ के राज्य से अभ

Original English: They can choose a device with or without GPS.
Translated Hindi: If they choose one that does not have GPS, they will need to have an external GPS antenna. This antenna attaches to the back of the device and can be placed near a window. If you are not sure which product to choose, please consult with your agent.
Hindi: इनक

Original English: Or they can choose not to have a device at all, opting instead to pay a flat fee based on the average number of miles driven by all state residents.
Translated Hindi: This would be like a tax on driving, and would have the effect of reducing driving and therefore emissions.
Hindi: यभी वे नहीं अपने मशीन के लिए चुन सकत

Original English: Other places are hoping to sell the concept to a wary public by having the devices do more, not less.
Translated Hindi: Google’s goal, according to a person familiar with its plans, is to make an internet-connected clock that does nothing but tell time, much like its own smartwatch, which it introduced in February. Google’s smartwatch, however, still requires a phone to handle the majority of its functions.
H

Original English: In New York City, transportation officials are seeking to develop a taxing device that would also be equipped to pay parking meter fees, provide "pay-as-you-drive" insurance, and create a pool of real-time speed data from other drivers that motorists could use to avoid traffic.
Translated Hindi: The device is called a "vehicle miles of travel (VMT) tax." The New York City Department of Transportation is working with the Department of Motor Vehicles to create a system that would allow drivers to pay for the miles they drive. The proposal is to charge 1.5 cents per mile driven

Original English: "Motorists would be attracted to participate because of the value of the benefits it offers to them," says a city planning document.
Translated Hindi: "The benefits include lower costs for car maintenance, fuel and insurance, and for parking."
Hindi: "पार्किंग और निर्माण द्वारा तुरंत उज

Original English: Some transportation planners, though, wonder if all the talk about paying by the mile is just a giant distraction.
Translated Hindi: They say the real problems are too many cars on the road and too little public transportation. They want to focus on a simple solution: charge people to drive in the most crowded areas.
Hindi: कुछ परियोजना निदेशक

Original English: At the Metropolitan Transportation Commission in the San Francisco Bay Area, officials say Congress could very simply deal with the bankrupt Highway Trust Fund by raising gas taxes.
Translated Hindi: But they say it’s not that easy.
Hindi: (Translation in progress)
Pronunciation: At the Metropolitan Transportation Commission in the San Francisco Bay Area, officials say Congress could very simply deal with the bankrupt Highway Trust Fund by raising gas taxes. But they say it’s not that easy.

Original English: An extra one-time or annual levy could be imposed on drivers of hybrids and others whose vehicles don't use much gas, so they pay their fair share.
Translated Hindi: The levies would be paid into a fund designed to lower the cost of fuel for everyone.
Hindi: Ek doosre kuch der ke liye chalane wala hybrid aur jis kisi bhi jis se kam gharti lagti hai bharosa hai, a

Original English: "There is no need for radical surgery when all you need to do is take an aspirin," said Randy Rentschler, the commission's director of legislation and public affairs.
Translated Hindi: "All we are asking for is a little common sense and a few common-sense rules."
Hindi: "Kaal kaala moh ki pareshani ka ilaj tatha kabhi bhi apne ko natak nahi karna chahiye" said Randy Rentsch

Original English: If we do this, hundreds of millions of drivers will be concerned about their privacy and a host of other things.
Translated Hindi: The result is that the EU will not be able to lead in this area and will be left behind. Instead, we should look at the digital agenda as a whole and effect change through the use of data.
Hindi: Agar ham is par karte hai, hundreds of millions of drivers wo

Original English: According to the police his death was due to drowning.
Translated Hindi: But the post-mortem report is not yet available. In fact, the police have been unable to find out the actual cause of death.
Hindi: Police ne kaha hai ki uske death ki wajah waha pani se hi ho gayi hai. But post-mortem report

Original English: However, the police have taken the friend of the deceased into custody for hiding the deceased's luggage at his house.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Polis ki madad se yah gunahgari ka dost humko goliyon se dushmani ka mukabala karne laga hai.
Now, translate the following text from Hindi to English:
English: Vipul ji ki madad karane ke li

Original English: The police have filed the final investigation report with the court.
Translated Hindi: The court will now decide the date of the trial.
Hindi: Polis ne istikhara ka final me report sahitya sthal par file kar diya. Sthal par now kya date trial.
Translation:
The police has filed the final investigation report with the court. The

Original English: It may be recalled that on August 26th the police recovered the body of Jahid Iqbal from the Jhelum river in Padshahi Park.
Translated Hindi: It is alleged that Jahid was kidnapped from outside the club at Padshahi Park on August 25th. The police recovered the body of Jahid Iqbal, 22 years old, from the river at Padshahi Park. The body was found floating in the river with his hands

Original English: His family had accused his friends because his mobile and other luggage was missing.
Translated Hindi: After that, he was alone in the room. When he was alone, he felt bad. He was alone. He was alone in the room. He was alone in the room. He was alone in the room. He was alone in the room. He was alone in the room. He was

Original English: The police said in their report that the deceased's phone and SIM card were checked and his phone was being used by a woman named Saura.
Translated Hindi: They said that the deceased had called Saura before he died.
Hindi: थ न ट यल ने जब यह जखब कह थ लक एक बच च क ी

Original English: After questioning the woman, she said that the phone had been given to her by a relative named Ruhail Gauhar.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: बाते के बाद यह महिला ने कहा कि वह के अन्य के साथ रुहैल गौहर ने

Original English: Ruhail also lives in Padshahi Park and was a friend of the deceased.
Translated Hindi: He said: “It was at around 2.30 pm when I was on my way to the market. I saw a crowd gathered near the park and heard some people shouting. I went near the spot, and saw the dead body hanging from the tree. The body was like this when I

Original English: On August 25th, after Namaaz-e-Jumma, Ruhail had gone with Jahid to bathe in the Jhelum river.
Translated Hindi: Ruhail was bathing in the river when he saw Jahid go under water. He drowned in the river. No one had seen Jahid drown in the river.
Hindi: 25th August ko jab namaaz-e-jumma chal rahi thi to Ruhail aur Jah

Original English: Jahid took off his clothes and left all his things on the banks, while Ruhail went to the other bank to smoke a cigarette.
Translated Hindi: He was enjoying the cool breeze and the view of the river, when he suddenly heard a sound as if something had broken in the water. And suddenly the water was boiling before his eyes. Within seconds, the river was full of large crocodiles. They were moving fast and hunting down the people

Original English: When he returned Jahid was not there, only his clothes were there.
Translated Hindi: He searched and searched but could not find him. He asked the village people about Jahid but they did not give him any information. He took the clothes of Jahid with him. He could not sleep the whole night. He was very sad and cried all night. The next day he told his

Original English: Ruhail looked for Jahid, but he could not find him.
Translated Hindi: He asked his office-mate that where is Jahid? His office-mate replied that he has gone to his house. Ruhail asked his office-mate to tell Jahid that he wants to meet him and he will come to his house in the evening. English: یا س

Original English: Then he picked up his mobile phone, watch and other things and kept them for his own use.
Translated Hindi: He did not like any of the jewellery and left it all in the safe. He put the key of the safe in his pocket and started to walk out. When he reached the door he felt that he was forgetting something. He looked around and saw the TV and VCR. He opened the door

Original English: He did not tell anyone that Jahid has drowned.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Jahid ka na koi bataya, ki woh naakhuda gaya
English: He was asked to report to the police station, to file a police report. Hindi: Police station me aa jaye, police ka report file karna hai
English: He was asked

Original English: The police told the court that Jahid has drowned and the post-mortem report confirmed this.
Translated Hindi: The family of Jahid has been informed and they are waiting for the outcome of the post-mortem report. The police and family members of Jahid are clueless about his death.
Hindi: पुलिस को न्यायाधीश न

Original English: However, Ruhail was arrested under section 404 for hiding the facts and possessions of the deceased.
Translated Hindi: The prosecution witnesses, however, supported the prosecution story and narrated the events as per the FSL report. The prosecution also examined Dr. Sambhunath Sharma. He narrated the events as per the post-mortem report and also stated that the accused had hit the deceased with a stone

Original English: The Maharaja of the dynastic capital has arranged some magnificent cuisine from the majestic palaces.
Translated Hindi: He has prepared delicious dishes in the Indian style and has invited the guests for lunch on the royal terrace. The palace is so grand that the guests are astonished by the magnificence of the palace.
Hindi: अवतार राजा द्व

Original English: These special dishes will be available in all the restaurants of the dynastic capital from November 1st to the 5th, in your city.
Translated Hindi: Make sure you try them all!
Hindi: यह महान स्वादों के लिए विश्व का युगिया शाही रेस्टोर

Original English: One must enjoy the heritage of these enriched recipes from the dynastic capital this Diwali with your family and friends.
Translated Hindi: Authentic Awadhi dishes like Awadhi Murgh Angara, Awadhi Gosht Ki Biryani and Awadhi Paneer Pasanda will surely be a taste to relish this festive season.
Hindi: बस एक म ने आपक

Original English: Crispy Pea Rolls, Surti Plaza, Barsa Dola, Hariwali Patra, Jodhpuri Pakaros, Dakor na Gota nu Chat and Lilava Kachori will be awaiting you in the Special Diwali Thali.
Translated Hindi: Rs. 4995 per Thali.
Hindi: चीसपी पी स्टार्टॅर, सरुती प्लाजा, बरसा डोला, हरिवाल

Original English: Traditional recipes with vegetables such as Surti Udhiyu, Jaisalmer Panch Kuta, Pithaud ki sabji, Jodhpuri Gatta, Sagaru ke kofte, Rabodi Hara Pyaj, Til wale Aloo, Makai Mirch and Jajaria are included.
Translated Hindi: This book also includes some simple vegetarian recipes for children.
Hindi: Traditional recipes with vegetables such as Surti Udhiyu, Jaisalmer Panch Kuta, Pithaud ki sabji, Jodhpuri Gatta, Sagaru ke kofte, Rabodi Hara

Original English: The best way to end a regal meal is with desserts like Apple Jalebi, Tomato Halwa, Walnut Halwa, Dudh Pak, Date Barfi, Dryfruit Halwa, Makai Jajaria and Sutar Saini Kheer.
Translated Hindi: Also try the gourmet delights of Sukha Bhel, Bhel Puri, Pani Puri and Aloo Tikki Chat.
Hindi: Best way to end a regal meal is with desserts like Apple Jalebi, Tomato Halwa, Walnut Halwa, Dudh Pak, Date

Original English: Presenting CAT's trendy footwear and clothing collection.
Translated Hindi: Buy the best casual and sports shoes from CAT, available in a wide range of sizes for both men and women. Also, check out CAT's latest range of casual and sports clothing including t-shirts, jog pants, sweatshirts, shorts, etc.

Hindi: CAT ने ट

Original English: Chandigarh: On the occasion of the festival of lights the internationally renowned brand CAT presented a collection of trendy footwear and clothing.
Translated Hindi: People were seen wearing fashionable clothing and shoes. The store was packed with visitors and guests. The visitors were very happy to receive the gift hampers containing stylish clothing and footwear. The stores were open from 11am to 9pm for the festival of lights.
Hindi: प्रक

Original English: CAT is a brand that has been offering strong, durable, beautiful and high quality products for the past one hundred years.
Translated Hindi: The product range is vast and includes everything from furniture to office automation products, home appliances, IT and security solutions. CAT has over 145,000 customers across the country.
Hindi: CAT कार्यकारी स्थानियों और

Original English: Each of its products is made in the USA and represents the true CAT lifestyle.
Translated Hindi: We are proud to offer the original product line for men, women, and children. CAT apparel, shoes, workwear and accessories are made for today's casual lifestyle and can be found in department stores, specialty stores, and online. CAT is sold throughout the world and is known for quality and value

Original English: It is the perfect gift for your relatives and loved ones.
Translated Hindi: This is an ideal gift for birthdays, weddings, and other special occasions. It is an ideal gift for your friends and loved ones.
Hindi: यह आपके परिवार के और प्यारे लोग

Original English: This collection is ideal for the modern shopper who like this style of footwear, whether female or male.
Translated Hindi: Shoppers will find a great selection of shoes from casual oxfords to formal leather loafers in this footwear collection. You'll find a selection of shoes that are perfect for everyday wear, as well as shoes that are ideal for business wear or special occasions.
Hindi: इस ब

Original English: Available in this style are mid-cuts and wheel boots along with slip-ons and sandals made of premium leather, suede and canvas.
Translated Hindi: These comfortable shoes can be teamed with casuals to give you that stylish look.
HINDI: इस राशन के लिए mid-cut और बूट्स, slip-on और बूट

Original English: To make this footwear collection even more impressive even a denim range is also available.
Translated Hindi: The designs of the merchandise are unique and stylish.
Hindi: यादृच्छिक एक भी डेनिम रेंज भी वाले इस फूट

Original English: It includes woven trousers, graphic T-shirts, polo neck T-shirts, shorts, skirts and jackets.
Translated Hindi: They are available in a wide variety of colors and styles to suit individual tastes. They are made of cotton, linen, wool and acrylic. They are popular because they are comfortable and easy to maintain.
Hindi: Is include woven trousers, graphic T-shirts, polo neck T-shirts, shorts, skirts

Original English: CAT, in a way, is the blend of durability and lifestyle.
Translated Hindi: CAT is an acronym that stands for Caterpillar Inc. With 90 years of experience in the industry, CAT has now become a household name that manufactures heavy machinery, equipment and other products. CAT equipment and products are used for mining, forestry, construction, transportation and technology. The company is headquartered in

Original English: Luggage and travel gear is also available here.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यहाँ की लक्ष और यात्रा के लिए युक्तियाँ भी उपलब्ध हैं

English: The daily newspaper

Original English: MRF has been awarded the JD Power Award, for the tenth time in a row.
Translated Hindi: This award is given by customers, who rate us for our service. The JD Power Award is given for customer satisfaction. MRF is the only Indian tyre manufacturer to win this award.
Hindi: MRF ko J.D. Power Aawad, ek paye hua dinon tak,

Original English: Chandigarh: India's largest tyre manufacturer and one of the top 15 global tyre companies, MRF has been awarded the JD Power award for the tenth time in a row.
Translated Hindi: The JD Power survey was based on a sample size of 4,000 customers who were surveyed over a period of three years. The JD Power survey is based on a customer service index (CSI) that covers four factors: vehicle pick-up, delivery of the vehicle, service quality and service advisor.

Original English: This award is widely considered the equivalent of the Oscars by peers in the automotive sector and it is the most recognized in the industry.
Translated Hindi: It represents the ultimate distinction for an automobile and the most important prize for an automobile manufacturer.
Hindi: Isko sahi maanate hain Oscar Awards ke liye acche peers ke liye aur industry ke liye iske liye sahi maanane ke liye jaana

Original English: Very few companies have received this award for so many consecutive years.
Translated Hindi: It is a great privilege to be a part of such an organization. It is a pleasure to be a part of an organization where you are not just a number. As an employee, you are treated with respect and you are seen as a valuable asset. I am sure that the high standards of the

Original English: MRF has increased the size of the MRF ZLO Performance radials for high level vehicles.
Translated Hindi: The tyre has a 5% wider tread width and a 7% wider contact patch, which increases the contact area with the road. This leads to superior handling, better grip and cornering capabilities. The tyre has also been designed to provide an effective and efficient braking system. The tyre has a

Original English: Low profile tyres in the range of 40,45 and 55 are now available for many vehicles including Audi, BMW, Mercedes and Jaguar. More than 70 models of premium vehicles in the size 13 range, can now seen on Indian Roads.
Translated Hindi: These low profile tyres are designed to give better grip and handling, but are more prone to damage due to potholes, road side debris and other obstacles. The low profile tyres are known as tubeless tyres, and are more vulnerable to puncture when compared to conventional tyres. In the earlier days

Original English: The Due-guard company presented a water purifier to the Naya Nangal Temple of Lord Valmiki, for safe drinking water.
Translated Hindi: Purifier is capable of purifying water for 100 to 150 liters per day.
Hindi: दू गार्ड कम्पनी नयाँ नंगल मंदिर ने व

Original English: After receiving the water purifier from the company representatives J.K. Kaushik and Khushbu Kaushik, the Temple president Virendra Adiya said that this social act was very commendable, because now all the worshippers coming to the temple could enjoy clean drinking water.
Translated Hindi: The company representatives said that they would continue to provide pure drinking water to the people of the society and would also provide this water purifier to other societies at no cost.
Hindi: वैसे, वैशवदाता मन

Original English: The 77 year old former Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, known for his Bunga Bunga parties, has married a 28 year old girl in an extremely secretive manner.
Translated Hindi: The ceremony was held at the luxury hotel in Milan, named, Villa Crespi, in the presence of only 30 guests and Berlusconi's family. The bride has announced the happy news on the social media site, Instagram. She posted a picture of her and her husband kissing with the caption

Original English: This was revealed by a family friend, Marythell Polanco.
Translated Hindi: The family friend said that the couple were arguing over the issue of money. Marythell said that they were recently married and were living in a rented house. They had a fight over the issue of money. The police have taken the body of the woman to the hospital for the post-mortem and

Original English: According to her, the three times Prime Minister Berlusconi has married former TV anchor Francisca Pascale in his private chapel.
Translated Hindi: This is the first time Berlusconi has married a woman younger than him.
Hindi: उन्होंने कहा कि दो बार प्रधानमंत्री बर्लुसिन

Original English: Francisca met Berlusconi when she was a teenage activist with the Forza Italia Party.
Translated Hindi: She became a celebrity in Italy after she married the Italian prime minister. He made her an honorary citizen of Milan, and she became a regular on the magazine covers. She was also known for being a talented manager of the family's businesses.
Hindi: फ़्रैं

Original English: This is the same Francisca, about whom it has been said that her relationship with Berlusconi is a sham.
Translated Hindi: The weekly's newsroom was broken into, and a video was filmed of her in the shower. It was then distributed to the press and the internet. The video was published on a website and a man was arrested. I would like to ask the Commissioner what investigation is being made, and if the

Original English: Berlusconi's close friend and the Bunga Bunga Girl Marythell Polanco revealed that she was also invited to this secret wedding.
Translated Hindi: She said that she was at the wedding but did not see any women. She was also invited to the wedding of Berlusconi's son Pier Silvio and his partner Francesca Pascale in 2013. This time, she was not invited to the wedding.
Hindi: बे

Original English: This ceremony took place three weeks ago.
Translated Hindi: It was held in a large hall at the hotel. Pundits from all over the country recited Vedic hymns. The crowd stood as the chief guest arrived. Hundreds of school students were invited to participate in the ceremony.
Hindi: यह यज्ञ

Original English: During the revelation on Italian Radio 2, when Polanco was asked what would happen if those two were to get married, Polanco replied that they are already married.
Translated Hindi: The reason he gave: “I was very tired; I told them I would marry them. I don’t remember it, but it was true. They have been married for a long time.”
Hindi: In रियलिटी रेडियो 2

Original English: This was not a public ceremony.
Translated Hindi: It was a private ceremony.
Hindi: Yeh aadhe din ke liye aam prachar nahi thi. Yeh aadhe din ki privet shanti ritu hai.
Translation of the sentence:
The word "This" is a demonstrative pronoun which is

Original English: This wedding was held in the chapel at the former Prime Minister's home.
Translated Hindi: The bride was a famous supermodel and the groom was a celebrity. The ceremony was very modern and short. It was held on the 26th of June in 2011.
Hindi: यह शादी उनके घर का ड

Original English: Other than this, no one can say anything more.
Translated Hindi: No one can say anything more than this. 
Hindi: अन्य कोई इस बात के बारे में कुछ नहीं कह सकता। किसी

Original English: However, she did not go to the wedding.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Wal-kin woh shaadi ko nahi jaanay gayi.
Translation: Even though she did not go to the wedding.
Example:
Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: However, he did not go to school. Hindi: Wal-kin woh school

Original English: She had sent her best wishes to the newlyweds.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उन्होंने नयी शादीशुदुद्दान के लिए उनके परिवार के सभी व्य

Original English: They got married about three weeks ago on October 8th or 9th.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: They married about three weeks ago on October 8th or 9th.
If you see any other errors in the above translation, please let me know. Thanks.
The above translation is not accurate. I have already identified the errors and you are welcome to check them with me. The

Original English: He got engaged about 8 months ago to the 28 year old woman, Francesca Pascale, who is 50 years younger than him.
Translated Hindi: She is a former escort girl, but is now a university student.
Hindi: उसने अपने 28 साल की एक महिला के साथ 8 माह पहले प्रत

Original English: To avoid embarrassment, Berlusconi claimed loneliness as the reason for his decision to marry.
Translated Hindi: (Politician Silvio Berlusconi recently announced that he would marry his 27-year-old girlfriend, Francesca Pascale.) Hindi: Berlusconi ne apne apne ghar mein bade bade khusiyan laane ke liye Francesca Pascale ko apni

Original English: Between the hide and seek with the sun, rain continued in low-lying areas.
Translated Hindi: However, in the capital city, heavy rain is expected in the next two days. The Meteorological Department has predicted heavy rains in Delhi-NCR on 8th and 9th November. At the same time, in the wake of the rain, the Central Government has issued an alert to the

Original English: This created a cold front in the valley.
Translated Hindi: This cold front was even colder than the cold front that had previously been in the valley.
Hindi: यह एक उच्च ताप की आतँका था। यह उच्च

Original English: The cold could be gauged by the fact that the minimum temperature at Shrinagar was 4.8 degrees Celsius, in Gulmarg it was below 0 at -0.2 degrees and in Leh it reached -1.8 degrees Celsius.
Translated Hindi: The minimum temperature in Jammu was 8.8 degrees Celsius and in Srinagar it was 6.3 degrees Celsius. There was also fog in many areas of the state, including Srinagar, due to which the flight of a plane was delayed from the Srinagar Airport.

Original English: Leh was the coolest place in the whole state.
Translated Hindi: The cold wind blew over the mountain pass.
Hindi: लह एक बड़ा शानदार जगह था। बर्फी धूप से ठंडा

Original English: However, due to rain and snow the strategically important Srinagar to Leh national highway has been closed to traffic.
Translated Hindi: The annual pilgrimage to the Amarnath cave shrine in south Kashmir has also been affected by the road blockade.
Hindi: लेकचल से स ट्रट गिक लहू की राजधानी

Original English: There is heavy snowfall in the Jozilla Pass.
Translated Hindi: The roads are not safe.
Hindi: उस श्रह रु त साप थ के ल ए जोल ज ल पास म बहुत ब ह ज त हैं

Original English: This is the fourth snowfall of the season in the Kashmir valley and the first heavy snowfall.
Translated Hindi: The Kashmir valley, which had been experiencing bone-chilling cold for the past few days, is now experiencing a sharp plunge in mercury. This is due to the active western disturbance that is moving in from the western Himalayas. While, the Jammu region is reeling under a thick blanket of snow

Original English: Due to the western disturbance activity, since the early hours of Thursday the higher hilly regions have experienced some snowfall and the low lying areas had rainfall, that continued until late into the evening.
Translated Hindi: The higher hills also experienced some gusty winds, which went up to about 40 mph and the lower hills experienced winds of up to 30 mph. The weatherman has predicted more snowfall and rainfall in the higher hilly regions in the coming days.
Hindi: यहाँ

Original English: Normal life has also been affected by the cold.
Translated Hindi: The dense fog has forced the Railways to cancel a number of trains.
Hindi: जाती में भी ध्यान की गई है। चंद्रधर तापम

Original English: People remained in their homes to avoid the cold.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: लोग ठंड से बचने के लिए अपने घरों में बैठे रहे थे.
6. Translate the following text

Original English: Meanwhile, the electricity supply has also failed in this area.
Translated Hindi: And the entire area is in total darkness.
Hindi: अभी तक यहाँ पर यहाँ पर ज़रा सा बिजली भी नहीं चल र

Original English: The day temperatures in Shrinagar were four degrees below normal and were recorded at 13.7 degrees Celsius.
Translated Hindi: The minimum temperature was recorded at 1.1 degrees Celsius.
Hindi:
English:
The day temperatures in Shrinagar were four degrees below normal and were recorded at 13.7 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was recorded at 1.1 degrees Celsius.
Hindi: श्र

Original English: Due to the rains along with strong winds in Jammu in the early morning of Thursday, the cold increased at night.
Translated Hindi: The Meteorological Department has forecasted that cold wave conditions are likely to continue in Jammu and Kashmir. The maximum minimum temperature in the city was recorded at 12.4 degree Celsius and the minimum 4.6 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature in Srinagar was recorded at 3.

Original English: A minimum temperature of 16.6 and a maximum temperature of 27.0 degrees Celsius were recorded in Jammu.
Translated Hindi: The minimum temperature was 6.0 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 21.0 degrees Celsius in Srinagar.
Hindi: Jammu mein minimum temperature 16.6 degree Celsius aur maximum temperature 27.0 degree Celsius par hua. Jammu mein minimum temperature 6

Original English: According to the weather department, the influence of the western disturbances is declining and the weather will improve by Friday.
Translated Hindi: This is the third consecutive day when the minimum temperature was recorded below the normal.
Hindi: वर्षा शुरू करने से पहले सुस्तें गुजर जाती ह

Original English: According to the Shrinagar weather department's Director, Sonam Lots, the weather in the valley from November the first to the seventh is expected to be dry.
Translated Hindi: It will be sunny in the day, and cloudy in the night. The temperature will be around 19 to 24 degrees Celsius. The weather will remain the same from the eighth to the fourteenth. On the fourteenth, there will be a cloudy day, and in the night, there will

Original English: Asaram, jailed on sexual assault charges, was once again disappointed by the Supreme Court on Friday.
Translated Hindi: The apex court refused to give him relief on the plea that he was not given a fair trial by the Jodhpur High Court. But Asaram, who was sentenced to life imprisonment by a Jodhpur court in 2018, insisted that he was wrongly convicted and that an appeal

Original English: It was pleaded on behalf of Asaram that the media coverage is presenting him as a kind of Dracula drinking the blood of children, but the Supreme Court denied his request to ban the media coverage.
Translated Hindi: Asaram said that he was like a magnet for the media. People used to come to him to discuss their problems.
Hindi: उस लड़कियो का प्रश्न बताने लगा क

Original English: Chief Judge P. Satshivam's panel refused to ban the media coverage about Asaram and said that they had read every word reported by the media and had not found anything objectionable in it.
Translated Hindi: The panel members were of the view that this is a free country and the media has the right to report what is happening around them.
Hindi: प्रधान न्यायाधीश प. सत्सिवाम की

Original English: When they are receiving information from the police and other people how can we stop them?
Translated Hindi: If we can make a system to stop them, that we can stop the corruption of police. If we can make a system to stop, that we can get the information about which police is corrupted, we can make a system to stop them.
Hindi: Kya ham apne ghar par

Original English: Before that Asaram's lawyers accused the media of showing highly biased news.
Translated Hindi: They said that the police have no proof against Asaram, and that his arrest is illegal.
Hindi : ना होता है आसाराम के विवादित ख़ास ख़

Original English: The country has so many newspapers and news channels.
Translated Hindi: Because of this many people can get their own news from their preferred medium. Many people also use the internet for news.
Hindi: भारत में उत्तर प्रदेश न्यूज़ पत्र

Original English: They cannot file cases against every one of them, but the panel was not influenced by this plea and refused to file a complaint, saying that they had other options too.
Translated Hindi: “We can go to the court for a stay,” they told us.
Hindi: Unkhe kisi ko har ek ko case nahi file karwana hai, lekin panel yeh nahi suna aur case bhar ne ki salah nahi hasil karne ki kosh

Original English: The Court has already previously denied Asaram's request to ban the media coverage.
Translated Hindi: Therefore, the Court has earlier stated that the media can cover the trial proceedings. The Court is not inclined to grant the same now.
Hindi: हालांकि संध्या में अशारम ने कान

Original English: The officers of the department claim that this is the biggest case of TDS theft to date.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: विभाग के अधीन अधिकारी अब तक से तक बड़ा TDS चोरी के साथ इस

Original English: The director of the Mall group made payments to all the financial institutions after deducting the TDS, but did not deposit it in the government treasury.
Translated Hindi: He used to credit the money in personal account in bank.
Hindi: Director Mall Group ko sabhi financial institution se TDS dena pada, lekin usne government treasury me nahi deposit kiya. Bank me personal account me uske paas ek balance rakhne ki kosh

Original English: In this way he kept the accumulated TDS amount.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इस तरह है वह तुरन्त तक् जांचा गया तालूकन उसके है बडा क

Original English: The Mumbai Income Tax team, along with the team from the Jaipur Income tax department, raided this group on October 17th.
Translated Hindi: The 6th floor of the building is occupied by the Mumbai Income Tax Department, and the seventh floor by the Jaipur Income tax department.
Hindi: बैंगान की आयुक्त इच्छाल

Original English: During the investigation of this group it was revealed that this businessman had deducted the TDS but had not paid it in.
Translated Hindi: This businessman was then asked about the TDS which he had not paid but he refused to pay the TDS telling that he had not received any notice from the Income Tax Department. He was then asked about the source of the income of his family members but he refused to give any information. When he

Original English: This is why the TDS team initiated an income tax survey of this group.
Translated Hindi: This is a group of 24 companies.
Hindi: Yeh hain Yeh TDS team ne aage an income tax survey karne ki koshish ki. Ye sirf 24 companies hain.
Score: 0.55
The Hindi translation does not convey the meaning

Original English: About 15 days before, raids and a survey was carried out on the mall's group of directors, before there was any risk of the accounts being sealed.
Translated Hindi: On Wednesday, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGIT) made a raid on the group's offices at Gurgaon and Noida. The agency has questioned the company's directors and asked them to submit details of property and investments.
Hindi: न च न त

Original English: Angry with these actions, the businessman clearly told the officers of the income tax department that he is not ready to pay the TDS amount due to the income tax department right now.
Translated Hindi: He further informed that he will pay the TDS amount when the due date for filing of the income tax return comes.
Hindi: इन कारणों से उच्च प्रतिष्ठित ने इन

Original English: The Income tax department is continuing to target him and take action.
Translated Hindi: Hence, he is unable to go to the office. He requests that the company should allow him to work from home.
Hindi: Income tax department ki taraf se uske liye nahin kar rahe hain bas. Isliye woh office jaa nahin pa rahe h

Original English: In this case the officers have explained that if payment is not made the accounts will be frozen and a recovery procedure will be initiated.
Translated Hindi: However, the assessee was requested to pay the amount in installments. It was noted that the assessee had not made any payment even after lapse of around ten months. Thus, the assessment was framed u/s 144 of the Act on 24.03.2009.
Hindi:

Original English: As Diwali is approaching the demand for desserts has increased.
Translated Hindi: The demand is mainly on the 3rd and 4th day. The demand for sweets is increasing every year. The demand is high on the 3rd day of Diwali. The demand for sweets are increasing every year. The demand for sweets is increasing every year. The demand for

Original English: Because of this, the sale of substandard and counterfeit milk solids has increased.
Translated Hindi: The misrepresentation of milk solids has also led to a number of product recalls and complaints against dairy product manufacturers. Milk solids are adulterated with starch, skim milk powder, etc., and mislabelled as packaged skim milk powder. The use of glucose in place of glucose syrup, and corn or

Original English: To make the desserts glossy, colourful and sweet, chemicals that are harmful for the health are being used,.
Translated Hindi: The cookery class in the school is the place where the children get the opportunity to learn the healthy and delicious homemade sweets.
Hindi: कुकरी तथा पकावने को रंग, स्पंद औ

Original English: The Food and Drug Administration Department has launched a campaign against fake milk solids and chemical based desserts.
Translated Hindi: The department has conducted a raid in various shops and factories of Ahmedabad and Surat. Various items like sweets, desserts, sweets and pastries have been seized by the FDA team. Some samples of the seized items have been sent to the laboratory for testing.
Hindi: ख बन

Original English: The department has seized Rs.70 thousand worth of milk solids brought in from Madhya Pradesh and Rs 5 thousand worth chum chum from the Quetta Colony.
Translated Hindi: The department has also seized 2 quintals of mawa brought in from Mirpur and 1 quintal of mawa and 1 quintal of paneer from the Quetta Colony.
Hindi: Ek department ne 70,000 rupaye ki madhya pradesh se milke

Original English: With the increase in demand of desserts in the market the demand for fake milk solids from Madhya Pradesh has also increased.
Translated Hindi: The fake milk solid is made by blending chemicals with the milk. The fake milk solid is a mixture of chemicals such as buffalo milk solids, wheat flour, and chemical emulsifiers. The fake milk solids is used in restaurants to thicken the milk and also in the sweets. It is very difficult

Original English: The department received a tip off that substandard milk solids were being brought from Madhya Pradesh to Nagpur and stored in soil.
Translated Hindi: A raid was conducted in the house of one Mr. Sanjay. The raid was conducted in the presence of Mr. Sanjay, his wife and his mother.
Hindi: State ka pramukh ghar mei substandard dahi goliya nikal rahe the. Mad

Original English: The milk solids were brought from the transport garage to Nagpur.
Translated Hindi: The milk was boiled to curdle it and the curd was sent to the ghee factory for production of ghee.
Hindi: Transport garage se gud kai gadiyon se laai. Gud ko garam karke curd banaaya jisaki ghee b

Original English: The milk solids seized by the department were reported to be worth Rs.70 thousand.
Translated Hindi: The seized milk solids were mixed with water and sold as milk. They were also sold as butter.
Hindi: The milk solids seized by the department were reported to be worth Rs.70 thousand. The seized milk solids were mixed with water and sold as milk. They were also sold as butter.

Original English: No one has claimed the milk solids due to the risk of legal action.
Translated Hindi: It was impossible to claim the due amount because of no contact with the milkmen for several years.
Hindi: कोई अगम्य दूध की समस्या नहीं प्रयास क

Original English: The department has destroyed the same as it was considered unclaimed (unknown).
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वे वर्ष 2017 के अंतर्गत इस नाम है जो कि चौथी आविष्कार प्रमाण

Original English: The department raided Jitendra Caterers in the Quetta Colony and seized chum chum worth around Rs.5 thousand.
Translated Hindi: The raid was led by Nadeem Ahmed, an official of the department, who was supported by Karamat Ali, another official. The raiding party found chum chum in the hands of Jitendra and his workers. They also found the shop to be unhygienic and

Original English: A chemical named sodium hydro-sulphate is used to make the chum chum shiny and more lasting.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: एक अधिकतर रजिस्ट्री का नाम जो चँचू को आकर्षक और अधिक

Original English: A sample has been sent to the laboratory.
Translated Hindi: It is your responsibility to inform the laboratory about the results.
Hindi: A sample is sent to the laboratory. It is your responsibility to inform the laboratory about the results.

Q: What is the difference between "you" and "your"?
A: The word "you" is the second

Original English: The joint-commissioner of the department, S.S. Deshmukh, said that the campaign to seize chemical based desserts and substandard or counterfeit milk solids will continue.
Translated Hindi: According to the report, a random survey of over 200 shops in the city revealed that most of the items being sold were substandard or counterfeit. Zonal officer, G.B. Kulkarni, told that the main reason for the substandard milk products being found in the city is that

Original English: The department also said that in the next few days this campaign would intensify.
Translated Hindi: The department would also hold a few interactions with the public and social organisations to know their views.
Hindi: Yeh department kehte hain ki kabhi kabhi, jab public mein sambhavana hoti hai ki kisi kaam ko karna hai toh woh public mein

Original English: The consumption of these desserts can cause poisoning.
Translated Hindi: They contain eggs that are not properly cooked. Please do not eat these desserts.
Hindi: ये डिस्ट आपको मारने की ख़ास कषाय देने वाल

Original English: The department has asked tradesmen to use good milk and milk solids when making desserts.
Translated Hindi: To ensure the quality of the product, we have to test the finished products. The quality control department will randomly test products.
Hindi: विभाग हो रहा है कार्यकर्ता खाद्य स

Original English: An appeal has been made on behalf of the department to the public to beware of fake desserts.
Translated Hindi: The public should note that only original desserts from the department are available in the market.
Hindi: श्रम विभाग द्वारा मानवता द्वारा दर्ज किया

Original English: 42 selected senior leaders of the state BJP unit gave him a grand reception at the airport.
Translated Hindi: The leaders also included the party’s national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav.
Hindi: अंतरह नेता 42 उम्मीदवर के लिए बाजार में भ

Original English: It is noteworthy that Modi was here on a consolation tour in Bihar organised by the BJP.
Translated Hindi: He had come to seek support of the people to ensure that the NDA government at the Centre was able to work properly.
Hindi: ये इतनी कौनसी बात है कि मोदी ने

Original English: The consolation tour was an exercise organised by the BJP to console the families of the victims of the Patna bomb blasts.
Translated Hindi: The tour was undertaken in the aftermath of the blasts that shook Patna in October 27, 2013. The blasts occurred just before the prime minister and the BJP's prime ministerial candidate, Narendra Modi, addressed an election rally in the city.
Hindi: कड़ा

Original English: It is noteworthy that a total of 7 bomb blasts occurred one after the other during Narendra Modi's Hunkaar rally on October 27th.
Translated Hindi: The blasts took place in the heart of the city. Everyone was shaken. The city is now filled with shock and panic. The people are frightened. There is a sense of fear which is spreading in the city like a contagious disease. The people have been rendered helpless and are looking to the government for

Original English: Indian Mujahideen terrorists involved in the bombings had intended to cause a stampede during the rally, so that more people would die and to spread panic in the state.
Translated Hindi: The explosives were hidden in the bags of children and were detonated with radio frequency remotes.
Hindi: तरख भरत भय क बम इसतम र जन हक व शल ह ह

Original English: The terrorists intentions were thwarted but six people died in the blasts.
Translated Hindi: The terrorists had planted bombs in a bakery, a cinema hall and a cinema complex. The bombs were discovered and defused by the bomb disposal squad. The police are still trying to find the suspects.
Hindi: बल के नजरिये मशी

Original English: They all have been declared to be martyrs by the BJP.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: बी.जे की वो सब हैं जो दिल्ली में मरीज़ हैं।
7. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
English

Original English: An urn tour was organized from their village by the party leaders on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: The party leaders said that the BJP leadership has not yet announced the names of the candidates for the upcoming elections. The leaders said that the BJP has not yet decided on the names of the candidates, but the candidates will be selected in the light of the local factors.
Hindi: बड

Original English: Their remains were buried in the Ganges in Patna on November 5th.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Unko patna mein ganges ke beech nadi mein 5 November ko ishara se marne ke baad khona pada tha.

Sarvatobhadra Chaitya, Patna
Archeological Survey of India site

Patna is the

Original English: The consolation tour was a part of this tour.
Translated Hindi: It was an amazing experience. I got to see the life of many people. Their lifestyle is so different. I was amused by their simplicity.
Hindi: (बड़ा अभयारण्य एक जान

Original English: The main player in this was Narendra Modi.
Translated Hindi: He had the ability to bring out the best in his team. He knew how to handle his team and bring the best out of them. He has an ability to connect with the people. He had a vision to take India forward. He had the strength to fight the opposition and win the battle.

Original English: He will be going to the villages of the people killed in the bomb blasts to meet the families.
Translated Hindi: But the Prime Minister will not be going to the villages because he does not know Hindi.
Hindi: Woh logon ke bomb blast ke khilaaf wapas ghumane gaye the. Lekin, Pradhan Mantri ko logon ke villages ke liye nahin

Original English: During this meeting and visit he will be donating cheques worth five lakh rupees to each family of the deceased.
Translated Hindi: The Chief Minister will also make an announcement of the new year's gift of Rs. 1 lakh to each family. To help the families of the martyrs, the Chief Minister will give an immediate relief of Rs. 2 lakh.
Hindi: यह बैठ

Original English: This financial aid has been already announced by the BJP.
Translated Hindi: It has nothing to do with the Congress.
Hindi: Ye financially aid BJP ne hi suna diya hai. Kya congress ke khilaf hai.
35
Answer the following question.
Q.6. What is the difference between the text given above and the Hindi translation?
Q.

Original English: When the exciting Indian team plays at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium after their spectacular win in the last match for the seventh and last one-day against Australia, they will be aiming to win this match and win the series.
Translated Hindi: It would be a fitting tribute to the legendary cricketer and first Indian captain, Vijay Hazare, who played his last match for the country at this ground. With the World Cup starting in less than two months' time, this match will be a pointer to how the Indian team will fare

Original English: After rains washed out the last two one-day matches, they had to win the Nagpur one-day for India to remain in the series, and its batsmen played an amazing game and had a record win, levelling the series at 2-2.
Translated Hindi: And that win came on the back of a good bowling performance with Zaheer Khan, Ashish Nehra and Harbhajan Singh leading the attack.
Hindi: Nimbooda, nimbooda, nimbooda, nimbooda, and the rains washed out the last two one-day

Original English: In this series team India has achieved the target of 350 or more runs twice and once again the responsibility to save the team lies with the batsmen.
Translated Hindi: All eyes are on Virat Kohli.
Hindi: यह टीम इंडीया के गेंद के साथ ही गेंद के साथ गेंद

Original English: Indian batting is at its peak now and even the bigger targets seem small to them.
Translated Hindi: On the other hand, they are also in the habit of giving away big targets and losing.
Hindi: भारतीय खेल साला आज बड़े टार्गेट्स को

Original English: Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan, Virat Kohile and Mahendra Singh Dhoni are in great form, but the team also has high expectations of Yuvraj Singh, Suresh Raina and Ravindra Jadeja.
Translated Hindi: The team also has a strong bench strength with the likes of Ambati Rayudu, Dinesh Karthik, Ajinkya Rahane, Shikhar Dhawan and Yuvraj Singh.
Hindi: Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan, Virat Kohile aur Mah

Original English: As far as opening is concerned, the opening pair of Rohit and Shikhar is making the job easier for the other batsmen, with their strong partnership.
Translated Hindi: Rohit has been a good opener for India for many years now and his form is good. Shikhar is in good form as well. Both of them are making good starts for the team. We would like to continue in the same vein.
Hindi: Yahaan aasan kaam

Original English: They gave Virat the opportunity to bat without any pressure in Jaipur and Nagpur with their remarkable opening partnership.
Translated Hindi: 320 in Nagpur, 202 in Jaipur, and 304 in Bangalore. That is the reason why they have become the number one Test team in the world.
Hindi: व रत के ल ए जयप र न ग

Original English: Given the great performance by Virat up until now at No.3, he is being seen as the future Sachin Tendulkar.
Translated Hindi: Teasingly, the sports media and public are calling him the ‘Rohit of the 2nd innings’.
Hindi: विराट के अभी तक नंबर 3 पर अच्छ

Original English: Actually, a lot of cricket greats have said that he is better than Sachin.
Translated Hindi: But no one wants to criticise Sachin. One of the greatest cricketers of all time is Yuvraj Singh, but he has been a failure in the IPL so far. He has played well only in the 2011 World Cup. Many players from Punjab have been picked in IPL

Original English: Virat, who is completing 25 years next week, has scored 17 one-day centuries out of which 16 have lead to an Indian victory.
Translated Hindi: He has the record of the most number of fifty plus scores in ODI cricket. He has been instrumental for India in the past 5-6 years. He has a batting average of around 60 in Test cricket and has been a leading run scorer for India. He is a great role model

Original English: While chasing a target his average is above 80 and he has emerged as a excellent finisher.
Translated Hindi: He has also become a specialist in hitting the ball past the boundary for sixes. He has also scored more than 5000 runs in one day internationals and has two hundred and fifty seven sixes to his credit. He has also been the highest run scorer in the 50 overs World

Original English: The top three batmen of India are in great form, but too much reliance on these three can also be damaging for the team.
Translated Hindi: It was the batting unit of the team that had done the bulk of the scoring in the last one-year. Not only did the team register some huge victories, it also managed to maintain a winning run. The team’s performance in recent times has been exceptional, but now it is important that the team

Original English: Raina and Yuvraj were very bog flops in the last match.
Translated Hindi: They were very sad. Raina was very sad. His mother said, “Dear, do not be sad. You will have a good performance in the next match.”
Answer: रैना तथा युवराज नई

Original English: Yuvraj could not even open his account in the two matches of the series.
Translated Hindi: He had scored only 2 runs in the first match and he was dismissed for 10 runs in the 2nd.
Hindi: Yuvraj ne do match me apne account khola hi nahi tha. Ek match me 2 bhaav mashoor huye aur doos

Original English: Because of this, a good innings at the Bengaluru one-day would be a 'lifeline' for him.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इसलिए बेंगलुरु में एक बेहतरीन एडिटिशन युग लेने के लिए उन

Original English: As far as Australia team is concerned, their batsmen especially Captain George Bailey, has impressed everyone with his performances.
Translated Hindi: His bold batting has given the team lots of confidence. He has played a very good innings in the series and has won the Man of the Series award. I wish him all the best for the rest of the series.
Hindi: अस व अस व भर

Original English: There has been demand to include him in the Home Ashes test team against England.
Translated Hindi: He is very good in the test format. He has a good record in the ODI format as well. He is one of the best all rounders. He is one of the most destructive batsmen. He can be a good captain.
Hindi: उसके ल

Original English: Australia has good batsmen up to number nine.
Translated Hindi: It will be difficult to take wickets.
Hindi: ऑस् ‍ tralia के बद्‍ समन नंम् ‍ 9 तक अच्‍छे बद्

Original English: Besides of Bailey, Shane Watson, Glenn Maxwell, Adam Voges and James Faulkner have batted well in the series.
Translated Hindi: Watson scored a 44-ball 55 in the first match, while Maxwell scored an unbeaten 46 in the next one.
Hindi: बेली, शैन वॉटसन, ग्लेन मॉकस

Original English: Although Phil Hugh and Eron Finch haven't been able to make an impression at the opening.
Translated Hindi: The umpire called out the batsman. The fielders ran to the bowler's end and the batsman was out of the crease. The umpire then signalled the fall of a wicket. The bowler was satisfied that he had hit the wicket. The batsman was

Original English: However, the absence of bowler Michael Johnson could make things difficult.
Translated Hindi: As many as eight other bowlers will be hoping to get a chance to bowl at the Indian batsmen, in a bid to stake a claim to the No. 2 spot.
Hindi: लेकिन, सर्वे टीम के ब

Original English: Johnson, who had been performing well until now in the series, has been sent home to prepare for the Ashes series.
Translated Hindi: After the recent drawn Test series against India, which was followed by a dismal performance in the Champions Trophy, England's selectors decided t

Original English: BJP national executive member and chief spokesperson, Dr Jitendra Singh, said Pakistan is now working on a new strategy to infiltration of terrorist groups under the guise of peace.
Translated Hindi: He said India should not be surprised by the sudden return of 27 Indian fishermen detained by Pakistan.
Hindi: पक स रक षक और पक क र षन प रव र षक और द क

Original English: Citing reports from intelligence agencies, Singh said in a statement issued on Thursday that Pakistan is leaving no stone unturned in trying to infiltrate 2,000 terrorists trained in their training camps.
Translated Hindi: He said Pakistan is also engaged in a proxy war in Jammu and Kashmir.
Hindi: अगर सूचने आ रही हैं, तो सिंह ने विभागी

Original English: That is why they will never allow peace to prevail on the border.
Translated Hindi: They will not let a single day pass without firing at our posts and our villages. They will always try to create tension. But we shall never lose our patience. We have been peaceful for so long, and we shall remain peaceful, but we will not forget our resolve to defend our country and its

Original English: After the separatists intentions of provoking the people in Kashmir and spreading widespread unrest failed, Pakistan has become more unruly.
Translated Hindi: Pakistan is now openly threatening India with nuclear war.
Hindi: जम्मू-कश्मीर में उन पवित्रों ने देश की नाश के ल

Original English: Citing the Pakistan tour of the separatist the BJP leader said that the ISI chief, Lt. Gen Zaheer-ul-Islam, Lashkar, Hizb chief's Hafeez Sayeed and Saiyad Sallahuddin have predicted a rise in terrorism in 2014.
Translated Hindi: He said that a group of people said that the real face of Pakistan is being exposed. The people of Jammu and Kashmir have to decide whether they want to go to Pakistan or for development they want to remain in India. It is clear that the separatists are taking help from Pakistan.
Hindi

Original English: Pakistan is seriously trying to complete this promise.
Translated Hindi: This is a great step in the right direction. Pakistan government must ensure a smooth supply of electricity to all the provinces in the country. They need to make sure that they are able to supply electricity to the affected areas as soon as possible so that the people will not suffer anymore.
Hindi: Pakistan

Original English: The killing of soldiers on the border and suicide bombings in Samba, Hiranagar are part of the same strategy.
Translated Hindi: They are meant to force us to the negotiating table. We should not fall into the trap. We should not be provoked. We should be determined to fight terror with all our might. We should be resolute in our response to these attacks. We should not allow the Pakistani ISI to dictate terms to

Original English: While stating that under these circumstances demand for the suspension of the special rights of the army would be dangerous, he said that saying such things before things cool down in the state is also not in the public interest.
Translated Hindi: National interest is above all and whatever is in the national interest should be done. No one can be allowed to play with the interests of the people of the state. It is not good to play with the interests of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. He said that the situation is very serious in

Original English: This would abet the anti-national elements.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह अननय अभयशाबद्ध कि अभयकारको को अपनया करने में मदद

Original English: He stressed that the leaders should stop making statements that reduce the morale of the army and security forces.
Translated Hindi: He also urged the leaders to stop making provocative statements on the Indian Army and security forces. He said, "We should commend our boys on the ground and not incite them."
Hindi: Wo yah batate hain ki desh ke sare mitron ko desh ke sena aur

Original English: Snowden ready to "cooperate" with Germany over US surveillance
Translated Hindi: claims
Hindi:  स्नोडन अमेरिका के नगरिकों की उपलब्धि बाजारों में अजाय

Original English: Edward Snowden, the US intelligence whistleblower, has declared that he is willing to travel to Berlin to give evidence to the German parliament if the US National Security Agency and its director Keith Alexander fail to provide answers about its activities.
Translated Hindi: You should know that the NSA has been tapping the mobiles of German chancellor Angela Merkel and other politicians in Germany; it has also spied on the communications of officials in the European Union and in other countries. Snowden has been granted temporary asylum in Russia. Last week, Alexander testified to the US Congress

Original English: German MP Hans-Christian Ströbele on Thursday met Mr Snowden in Russia, where he has been granted asylum, to discuss him testifying in Germany.
Translated Hindi: But the German government said that it did not want him on German soil. Ströbele said that Mr Snowden and his lawyer would consider the offer and get back to him. He said that he had also raised the case of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who is living at the Ecuadorean

Original English: A letter from Mr Snowden, presented to the media in Berlin on Friday by the MP, said: "Though the outcome of my efforts has been demonstrably positive, my government continues to treat dissent as defection, and seeks to criminalise political speech with felony charges that provide no defence."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: एडीसन ने आज कि बाराना के वासियों के साथ मिलकर जो पत्र लिखा है,

Original English: However, speaking the truth is not a crime.
Translated Hindi: It is an essential right of the journalist. In most of the cases, the authorities are attempting to take the rights of the journalists and the media in the name of security.
Hindi: पर शर्तो के अनुसार, पत्रक

Original English: In the letter, Mr Snowden said he believed the support of the international community could persuade the US government to abandon criminal charges against him.
Translated Hindi: He also said he hoped to see the law on whistleblowers changed.
Hindi: एस एस पंजीकरण सभी विश्वव्यापी आकर्षण के स

Original English: The charges filed by the US justice department include espionage and theft of government property.
Translated Hindi: The FBI says the Chinese stole, in some cases, classified devices, and then passed on sensitive information to the Chinese government. The US justice department is seeking the extradition of the men, who are accused of working for China’s intelligence services. They’re charged with stealing American secrets for more than a decade

Original English: Hans-Peter Friedrich, German interior minister, told Zeit Online: "If Mr Snowden is ready to speak to German officials, we will find ways to make this possible."
Translated Hindi: Today, the Interior Minister said to German media: "I will take care, that he gets a fair trial in Germany." 
Hindi: हान्स पीटर फ्रीडरिच, जर्मन इंट

Original English: Relations between the US and Germany have come under strain following claims that the NSA bugged Chancellor Angela's Merkel's phone.
Translated Hindi: The German government has demanded an explanation from Washington. The German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, said the reports were "unacceptable". Meanwhile, the White House said it would review the allegations. Merkel is expected to raise the issue during a visit to Washington next week. A senior US

Original English: Thomas Oppermann, the MP who heads the parliamentary panel that oversees intelligence, said that if there were an opportunity to hear Mr Snowden as a witness "without bringing him into danger and completely ruining relations with the US," it should be taken.
Translated Hindi: French: Thomas Oppermann, qui préside le comité parlementaire de surveillance des services de renseignements, a déclaré que si une occasion se présentait de faire témoigner M. Snowden, sans le mettre en péril et en ruinant complètement les

Original English: Mr Ströbele, an MP for Germany's Green party, published a picture of himself with Mr Snowden on his Twitter feed.
Translated Hindi: The picture shows the MP in a dark suit and tie shaking hands with a man dressed in a T-shirt and jeans. The man is Mr Snowden, who is pointing to a sign on a wall that reads: "The world is watching". The pair are surrounded by at least six other people, some

Original English: He was accompanied on his visit to Russia by two German journalists.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Woh apane rusya jana ke liye do bamhar tatha hinglish journalist ke saath gaye.
Translation of the English Text Hindi 
Q.2 Translate the following text from English to Hindi.
English: The total number of eggs in a carton is

Original English: Mr Ströbele said that, according to the former NSA contractor's lawyer, Mr Snowden would not be able to return to Russia if he left.
Translated Hindi: He asked for a guarantee that he would not be extradited to the US. As we know, Mr Snowden is being investigated on charges of espionage. The US authorities have made absolutely no move to extradite him because they have no grounds for doing so. Mr Ströbele asked Ms Douste

Original English: If Mr Snowden testified in Germany he would need assurances that he would be "safe" there, the MP said.
Translated Hindi: He added that Mr Snowden also wanted to avoid a "completely pointless encounter" with the US authorities. Mr Snowden flew to Moscow from Hong Kong on Sunday.
Hindi: Agar Mr Snowden Germany se testyfy karne ki liye mangta hai to wo kisi assurance deta hai

Original English: Mr Snowden said in his letter that he had faced a "severe and sustained" campaign of persecution that forced him from his home.
Translated Hindi: "I cannot allow you to sacrifice my name, my family or my career for the security of a programme with which I have deep misgivings," he wrote.
Hindi: Mr Snowden ne letter mein kaha hai ki woh "severe and sustained" campaign ka victim ban gaya

Original English: However he said that he was heartened by the worldwide response to "my act of political expression."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उन्होंने बताया कि श्रमिकों के अधिकारों और व्यक्तिगत स्वास्थ

Original English: Citizens around the world as well as high officials - including in the United States - have judged the revelation of an unaccountable system of pervasive surveillance to be a public service.
Translated Hindi: They have applauded the courage and the commitment to transparency of the people who made this disclosure possible.
Hindi: भारतीय नागरिकों की तरह व अमेरिकी उपर

Original English: The letter extends an offer to cooperate with German authorities "when the difficulties of this humanitarian situation have been resolved."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: लेख में तत्व कोई देने के लिए जर्मन आयोगों की सहयोग के लिए

Original English: Frontier Airlines to charge for carry-on baggage
Translated Hindi: NEW YORK: Frontier Airlines is charging passengers to check and carry on bags. The Denver-based airline will charge $5 each way for the first and second checked bags, and $25 for carry-ons. The new policy will take effect on July 7. Frontier cited the rise in fuel prices for the

Original English: Frontier Airlines plans to charge up to $100 for passengers to store carry-on luggage on board their flight.
Translated Hindi: The airline is considering the new fee because too many passengers are bringing too many bags on board. The airline is concerned that these bags could block the aisles and keep passengers from moving about the cabin. Frontier is considering a new policy that would charge passengers $30 for their first bag and $50 for

Original English: Frontier Airlines plans to start charging up to $100 for a carry-on bag and $2 for coffee or soda, although its announcement on Wednesday did say that passengers will get to keep the whole can.
Translated Hindi: A New York-based investment group that bought Frontier in 2009 says it's needed to keep the Denver-based airline from going under.
Hindi: फ्रंटाईर एयरलाइन्स ने, दिनां

Original English: The new carry-on fee is for bags in the overhead bin, so small bags under the seat will still be free.
Translated Hindi: But carry-ons larger than 22 x 14 x 9 inches will cost you. In many airports, the new fee is $5 for the first bag and $25 for the second bag. However, in other airports, it could be $50 for the first bag and $75 for the

Original English: Frontier said it will charge $25 if the fee is paid in advance, $100 if travelers wait to pay until they're at the gate.
Translated Hindi: It may seem punitive, but Frontier is all about low prices, and they're going to get you on the back end, anyway.
Hindi: (जिसमें फ्रंटीर द्वारा जुटा ह

Original English: Frontier spokeswoman Kate O'Malley said the $100 fee is to get travelers to take care of the charge in advance.
Translated Hindi: Frontier charges $100 for a carry-on bag if it's not purchased online. O'Malley said the fee works like an early-bird check in and gives passengers a chance to get a seat assignment before they arrive at the airport. The charge is available for advance purchases only.
Hindi:

Original English: "We don't want to charge that," she said.
Translated Hindi: "We don't want to make it more complicated than it is." Hindi: "Hum usse charge nahi karna chahte hain". "Hum usse complicated banana nahi chahte hain. "
Answer the following questions:
1. What is the meaning of the expression, "

Original English: Airlines began charging for the first and second checked bags in 2008.
Translated Hindi: The airlines charge about $25 for the first checked bag and $35 for the second checked bag. These fees are not included in the airfare price; instead they are added to the final price of the ticket. Airlines may charge additional fees for bags that are over the weight limit. It is a

Original English: Passengers trying to avoid those fees have been stuffing as much as they can into carry-on baggage stashed in overhead bins, meaning those bins often run out of space.
Translated Hindi: So, in July, Delta Airlines will add new check-in fees for oversized carry-on bags. Starting July 10, Delta will charge $100 for the first bag, and $200 for each additional one.
Hindi: पासेंटर अस्वीक

Original English: Fees are one way to get passengers to bring less on board.
Translated Hindi: A fee for onboard baggage is discriminatory. It is unfair to passengers who are not members of frequent-flyer programs. It is also unfair to passengers who have paid a fee or higher fare for their ticket.
Hindi: Fees agle se nirdeshit karte hai ki passangeron ko

Original English: O'Malley said the new charge is not really about raising money.
Translated Hindi: "The whole goal here is to get to the root cause of the problem, and that's why we are saying that we need to have a health insurance program in place to start to address the problem," he said.
Hindi: O'Malley उसी से नही

Original English: It's about Frontier's most loyal customers making it very clear that finding overhead bin space has become increasingly difficult.
Translated Hindi: Our customers are understandably frustrated when they're forced to check their carry-on bags, sometimes at the gate.
Hindi: Is baat ko Frontier ki sabse aage wale customer ko maloom hai , jisne Frontier ke customers ko samjhayi hai ki Frontier ke customers ko carry

Original English: Passengers who buy their tickets on the airline's website won't have to pay.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: विमान वेबसाइट पर खरीदने वाले यात्रियों को छूट प्राप्त होगा

Original English: That means one passenger in line at a Frontier gate might get to bring a bag on for free, while the next person in line might owe $100 for a similar bag.
Translated Hindi: Frontier’s website does not provide an explanation either. (Source: http://www.usatoday.com/story/travel/flights/2013/08/22/frontier-airlines-baggage-fees-2013/2688871/)
Hindi: यह कहते ह

Original English: O'Malley said Frontier's website and check-in procedures are being changed to make sure passengers know about the fee before they get to the gate.
Translated Hindi: "The last thing we want to do is surprise people at the gate," O'Malley said. "The last thing we want to do is have angry customers."

Hindi: O'Malley कहा Frontier की वेबसाइट और मार

Original English: Frontier's new carry-on fee won't start until summer, though a date hasn't been set.
Translated Hindi: Frontier is the latest airline to charge passengers to carry-on bags. The Denver-based airline announced the new policy Tuesday. The change won't take effect until summer, though a launch date hasn't been set. On Tuesday, United Airlines announced a similar change to its policy. Starting in April, United will

Original English: Passengers often grumble about baggage charges and other fees, but airlines love them.
Translated Hindi: Profits at the 10 biggest publicly traded U.S. airlines increased 68 percent last year, to $6.9 billion, according to a report published Tuesday by the U.S. Department of Transportation. That’s the highest level since 2000.
Hindi: Passenger jaise log baggage

Original English: They argue that luggage costs money to handle, and passengers who want the service should pay for it.
Translated Hindi: It also maintains that rules against bulky baggage are necessary to keep the plane from being overloaded. Hindi: वे बताते हैं कि किसी को नहीं आती है बैग

Original English: Many on Wall Street view the addition of baggage fees as a sign that airlines are charging enough money to cover the cost of air travel after years of losses.
Translated Hindi: Many see the fees as a sign that airlines are charging enough money to cover the costs of air travel after years of losses.
Hindi: बड़ी भाषा में माना जा रहा है कि

Original English: Most haven't touched carry-on bag fees, though.
Translated Hindi: Smaller airlines and some bigger ones still don't charge fees, but they probably will. The others will have to charge fees to make up the shortfall.
Hindi: हालांकि, लेकिन उन्हें सही ल

Original English: Spirit Airlines Inc. started the first carry-on fee three years ago, and fellow discounter Allegiant Air later followed.
Translated Hindi: Now, the industry has taken it a step further, with American Airlines in late 2011 and Delta Air Lines last month introducing the first checked bag fees for domestic flights. The two airlines took different approaches, with Delta charging $25 for the first checked bag and American charging $15 for the first

Original English: The only other airline with such a fee is Hungary's Wizz Air, said airline consultant Jay Sorensen, who closely tracks add-on fees.
Translated Hindi: "I haven't heard of a third airline that has a fee like this," he said. "It's certainly unique."
Hindi: इससे पहले केवल एक एयरलाइन हूँ।

Original English: He estimated in a December 2011 report that Spirit's carry-on fee brings in $50 million a year.
Translated Hindi: The airline has 57 million customers a year.
Hindi: उन्होंने दिसंबर 2011 में रिपोर्ट में सोचा कि वहाँ क

Original English: Sorensen, a former executive with Midwest Airlines, flew Spirit recently and wondered what he'd find at the gate as passengers encountered Spirit's unusual carry-on bag fee.
Translated Hindi: He found plenty of pushback.
Hindi: सोरेनसन, एक अधिकारी था कि मध्य एयरलाइंस जैसे थाम

Original English: "The boarding process was the smoothest I had seen in my airline career," he said.
Translated Hindi: “The passengers had no trouble finding their seats. There was no chaos during the boarding process. It was really good to see this at the first flight.”
Hindi: “मैंने कोई व्यवस्थापन नह

Original English: I was expecting to see gnashing of teeth and a fight breaking out at the gate.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मैं तो यह उम्मीद रखता था कि दबाव और चिंता की चर्चा के साथ प

Original English: The plane was full, he said, "and it boarded lickety-split."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वहन भरा हुआ था , वह बोर्डिंग लिकेटी स्पीट बोर्डिंग करते हु

Original English: Frontier is also following Spirit's $2 charge for coffee, tea, soda, or juice.
Translated Hindi: Frontier will also be charging $2 for beer, wine, and spirits. The only drink you can get for free will be water and coffee, tea, or juice. Frontier has a $25 fee for checking a bag. If you want to check a bag, you will have to pay $25

Original English: Frontier said passengers who get soda or juice can keep the whole can, and it will give coffee refills for free.
Translated Hindi: The airline says it has to cut costs to compete with discounters like Spirit Airlines, which doesn’t offer free drinks.
Hindi: Frontier says that passengers who take soda or juice will keep the whole can. The airline says it has to cut costs to compete with discounters like Spirit Airlines, which

Original English: It will still give away water.
Translated Hindi: Its nature is not to give other people the benefit of the doubt. Its nature is not to be honorable, or to be generous, or to be nice, or to be helpful, or to be loving, or to be cooperative. Its nature is not to give anything. Its nature is not to

Original English: US Airways briefly tried charging for beverages in 2008 but backed down seven months later after passengers complained and no other major airline followed.
Translated Hindi: Once the economy recovered, the airline brought the beverage service back.
Hindi: US Airways इस तरह के अस्वीकार करता था था जब उसने कभी

Original English: Frontier's move to charge the carry-on fee if passengers don't buy direct from the airline is its latest effort to steer customers toward its own website.
Translated Hindi: Frontier said it would impose the fee at the gate for customers who did not buy their tickets directly from the airline or through an approved travel agent. The fee would be $20 for most passengers, except those in the airline's discount club, which has a $49 annual fee.
Hindi:

Original English: Airlines pay online travel sellers such as Orbitz $10 to $25 for each ticket sold.
Translated Hindi: Hotels charge the same rate, but some pay more. One company, Travelocity, also charges a fee to consumers for booking directly with the hotel.
Hindi: Airlines pay online travel sellers such as Orbitz $10 to $25 for each ticket sold. Hotels charge the same rate, but some

Original English: That has given all airlines an incentive to steer passengers to buy directly from them instead of going through an online travel agency.
Translated Hindi: Airlines are now offering deals that are only available when you buy a ticket directly from them, which means that if you visit a travel agency and buy a ticket from them, you might be paying more. The reason is that travel agencies are not getting a commission on direct purchases and are therefore not incentivized

Original English: Frontier has gone the furthest in this area, though.
Translated Hindi: The
rest of the world is only just starting to catch up.
Hindi: अगर द दखन दनत ह क कचच हमार द य ज तह बड़

Original English: In September it began giving half as many frequent flier miles to customers who bought through an online travel agency.
Translated Hindi: The change was a direct response to the likes of Orbitz, which has been offering frequent flier miles to its customers who book through its site. To keep its customers from switching to Orbitz, American Airlines decided to match the online travel agency’s miles offer.

Hindi: सितम

Original English: On Wednesday it slashed the mileage award to 25 percent of the miles of the trip.
Translated Hindi: In other words, a 300-mile trip would now earn 75 miles, or enough for a short domestic flight. The change takes effect July 1, 2011. The new mileage rules will be applied to all domestic flights and for flights between the U.S. and Canada, Mexico,

Original English: So, a 1,000 mile Frontier trip purchased from an online travel agency would earn 250 miles.
Translated Hindi: The same trip purchased directly from Frontier would earn 500 miles.
Hindi: Toh, 1000 mil Frontier trip ka kharidne se ek 250 mil milenge. Kisi bhi udti agency ke through milenge toh 500 mil. Agar Frontier se

Original English: It also allows passengers to choose their seat in advance only if they buy directly from the Frontier website.
Translated Hindi: If passengers buy their tickets from a third party, they will have to pay the airline $5 to choose their seats in advance.
Hindi: यह भी दस्तावेजों के आरेख से पासें

Original English: Frontier has a loyal base of customers in its home city of Denver, but its business is shrinking and losing money.
Translated Hindi: Frontier has high expenses, low sales, and a bad business model.
Hindi: गगे स्थान पर फंड्रोन्ट तत्व की अहम दुकानों के

Original English: Revenue dropped 9 percent and its flying capacity shrank almost 13 percent in the first quarter, according to financial results released Wednesday by corporate parent Republic Airways Holdings Inc.
Translated Hindi: of Indianapolis. The data do not include results from Frontier Airlines, which is now controlled by Republic. Frontier’s results for the quarter ended March 31 will be reported next Tuesday. The results are expected to show major cuts in Frontier’s capacity. The data also show that Republic’s operating expenses were down

Original English: Republic has been trying to fix Frontier's finances as part of selling the airline.
Translated Hindi: In 2012, the airline was sold to Air India for 30 billion rupees (Rs 3,000 crore), but the deal fell through after the airline's losses widened to Rs 5,000 crore.
Hindi: रिपब्लिक न

Original English: NSA Blames "Internal Error," Not Hackers, For Website Crash
Translated Hindi: Hindi: नए सामान्य कोच के प्रेरणा के साथ एनएसए ने वेबसाइट क्रैश म

Original English: The shadowy National Security Agency said late Friday that it was a glitch that brought down its public website for a few hours, not hackers as some claimed online.
Translated Hindi: A glitch. A glitch? I'm not sure what the NSA's definition of a glitch is, but I'm pretty sure the definition of a glitch is not, "Part of a computer system that fails or does not function in the way it is intended to." System that fails or does not function

Original English: "NSA.gov was not accessible for several hours tonight because of an internal error that occurred during a scheduled update," the spy agency said in an emailed statement.
Translated Hindi: "The error was quickly fixed and the site is now operational." Hindi: "NSA.gov से कई घंटों के लिए अच्छे वक्त के बाद नहीं

Original English: The issue will be resolved this evening.
Translated Hindi: Please try after an hour. Thank you for your patience.
Hindi: Is samay par iss samasya ka hal kar diya jayega. Abhi an hour ke baad try karein. Shukriya aapka sabr dekhne ke liye.

Original English: Claims that the outage was caused by a distributed denial of service [DDoS] attack are not true.
Translated Hindi: This was not an attack. The issue was not with the core network and the issue was limited to a single POP [point of presence]. Bringing this POP back online did not resolve the issue. The issue was not with the DNS [domain name system] provider. The DNS provider was not under attack

Original English: Earlier this evening online server trackers noted the NSA's website had been down for at least six hours, and the site continues to be inaccessible for some users.
Translated Hindi: The site was only down for a few hours before it came back online. The NSA did not respond to a request for comment on the outage. According to an analysis by The Intercept, the NSA's website had been down for at least six hours when it came back online. The site was only down

Original English: Earlier an NSA spokesperson told ABC News the agency's internal, sensitive network was "not at all" compromised.
Translated Hindi: The agency was still investigating how the data was stolen, she said.
Hindi: earlier an NSA spokesperson told ABC News the agency's internal, sensitive network was "not at all" compromised. The agency was still investigating how the data was stolen, she said.
Hi,

- Quote

damox

Original English: No classified information is in danger, the spokesperson said.
Translated Hindi: The department and the White House are aware of the situation. “We are working diligently to identify the source and cause of the compromise," the spokesperson said. “We have engaged the appropriate authorities and are working with our partners to address this issue." Hindi: कै संदर

Original English: At least one hacktivist group online claimed that they were responsible for bringing down the NSA site with a DDoS attack.
Translated Hindi: The group, which goes by the name of “Anonymous”, claimed that they were responsible for the attack and posted a message on the FBI website saying that they will be bringing down the NSA website.
Hindi: पहले का है hacktivist साइट क

Original English: DDoS attacks are designed to flood a target website with traffic until the servers are overloaded and the site collapses.
Translated Hindi: The attack was first used against the main website of e-commerce company eBay. The attack was launched by hackers from the Mariposa botnet, which is believed to have infected 15 million computers worldwide.
Hindi: DDos सतर्कतापूर्वक

Original English: The cyber tactic is a relatively unsophisticated one and the attacks are not meant to penetrate the internal network of the target system.
Translated Hindi: Rather, they are meant to deny service by flooding the target system with traffic.
Hindi: Cyber ​​tactic is a relatively unsophisticated one, and attack is not intended to penetrate the internal network of the target system. Instead, they are intended to deny service by flooding the target system

Original English: The formerly super secretive NSA, once nicknamed No Such Agency, has found itself in very public light, and amid vicious criticism, in past months following a stream of revelations about is vast foreign and domestic surveillance programs - collectively the product of secret NSA files stolen from the agency and leaked by disenchanted former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.
Translated Hindi: The agency has been roundly accused of violating the privacy not only of foreigners but also of Americans, who have voiced concerns about their government spying on them. The intense scrutiny has led to calls for the agency to be brought under tighter control, and to the prospect of new laws that would limit the agency

Original English: Such growing controversy surrounding the agency prompted early speculation that tonight's incident was the result of a targeted cyber operation.
Translated Hindi: The message itself was cryptic, referring to a "decryption key" that would show the truth. The WikiLeaks Twitter account, which posted the message, said the leak would be "the largest ever publication of confidential documents."
Hindi: Ek growing controversy surrounding the agency prompted early speculation that tonight's

Original English: A wonderful performance was given at the show "Ek aur Dronacharya" showing the resemblance between the Dwaapar yug and today.
Translated Hindi: It was a great show by the school.
Hindi: A fantastic show was organized by the school - "Ek aur Dronacharya", it was a play which showed the resemblance of Dwaapar yug and today. It was a great show by the school.
Education is the most

Original English: It showed how, in today's world, a teacher can be forced to follow the wrong path in compromising circumstances.
Translated Hindi: However, it also depicted that how a teacher can stand up for the right and change the society.
Hindi: यह ृष्टि हमें दिखाता है कि आजकल के द

Original English: The play was inaugurated in the St. Joseph Inter College auditorium jointly by Chief Guest MLA Prabhdayal Valmiki, Cantonment Board Vice-president Shipra Rastogi, Nresh Kansal and Shakti Singh.
Translated Hindi: The play was directed by Rajesh Chaudhary and introduced by Sarvesh Tiwari. The play also had 16 students from different schools of the college.
Hindi: खट्टास्ट गणेश प्राचार

Original English: The play showed the similarities between the conditions in Dronacharya in the Dwaapaar age and followed a professor called Arvind in the present day.
Translated Hindi: 

Original English: The play directed by Anil Sharma, Bharat Bhushan Sharma, Anil Sharma, Vinod Bechain, Hemant Goel, Seema Samar, Vanshidhar Chaturvedi, Abid Sammy, Shiva Ghazala, Amit, Ramesh, Arjun etc. did full justice to the characters and was a spectacular show.
Translated Hindi: I am sure that this play will be loved by the masses and will be a great hit and I wish that the play becomes a success and I wish to watch it once again with my family.
Hindi: Anil Sharma Ddirctor, Bharat Bhushan Sharma, Anil Sharma,

Original English: The theatre lighting was handled by a young artist, Jitendra C. Raj, and the set was designed by Hemant Kumar.
Translated Hindi: The direction of the play was done by Raja Bose.
Hindi: ट ट र य क ल ग ट इ ज़ ण ग ए ज़ य ग य ज, जट

Original English: After this function on behalf of APTA, many awards were presented to various literary and cultural personalities.
Translated Hindi: I would like to present the awards to the following people:
1. For the best translation of the English novel The God of Small Things into Hindi: Dr. Mohan Raj Sharma of Haryana.
2. For the best translation of the English novel The God of Small Things into Punjabi: Am

Original English: The head of the Urdu Department of Charan Singh University, Dr. Aslam Jamshedpuri, Senior Journalist Shambhunath Shukla and theatre designer Jitendra C. Raj were awarded on this occasion.
Translated Hindi: The Urdu Department of the university had made arrangements for the award function.
Hindi: चरण सिंह विद्यालय की इंग्रजी विभाग के कुशल

Original English: Among the officials of the executive committee, secretary Surendra Sharma, Rakesh Kaushik, Abid Rizvi etc., contributed to the success of the program.
Translated Hindi: It is also notable that besides the above officials, some other officials also attended the program. The cultural program included folk dance, skit, musical, orchestra, giddha. Abid Rizvi, Ranjeet Singh, Rakesh Kaushik, Surendra Sharma etc.

Original English: Bombardier profit dips as plane deliveries, orders fall
Translated Hindi: Hindi: बंबडाइटर की आईपीए खराब करने में कमरे लेने, ऑर्डर और द

Original English: Canadian plane and train maker Bombardier Inc reported a 15 percent fall in net profit on Thursday, pressured by fewer aircraft orders and deliveries in the third quarter and contract issues in its train unit.
Translated Hindi: Net income fell to $190 million, or 11 cents per share, in the third quarter ended Sept. 30, from $223 million, or 13 cents per share, a year earlier. Revenue rose nearly 2 percent to $4.75 billion.
Hindi: यह

Original English: Montreal-based Bombardier also did not release any flight test data for its brand-new CSeries aircraft or offer an update on whether the plane will meet its ambitious schedule of going into commercial service by next September.
Translated Hindi: 00:09 So far Canada’s largest aerospace company has refused to connect with the media.
Hindi: Montreal-based Bombardier ne kabhi apne CSeries aircraft ke flight test data release nahi kiya ya koi bhi update kahin nahin offer kiya ki ye

Original English: After the test plane's inaugural flight about a month and a half ago, it has only flown three more times, raising questions over whether the testing phase is on track.
Translated Hindi: The plane is Boeing's first major new jet since the 787 was launched in 2004, and is crucial to the company's future. The 737 MAX is scheduled to be delivered to Boeing's first customer, Lion Air, in the first half of 2017, with deliveries to other

Original English: Results fell short of forecasts and sent shares sliding more than 8 percent on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Results in a short fall of forecasts and send shares sliding more than 8 percent on the Toronto Stock Exchange.

share|improve this question

edited Jun 11 at 2:54

asked Jun 10 at 23:59

Arvind
112

Original English: Cameron Doerksen, an analyst with National Bank Financial, lowered his rating to "sector perform" from "outperform" on Thursday with the view that the stock has limited upside over the next one or two quarters.
Translated Hindi: Doerksen also lowered his earnings per share estimate for 2010 to $2.11 from $2.21 and lowered his price target to $40 from $50.
Hindi: कमरॉन डोरेक्सन, एक अ

Original English: "While the weaker aircraft deliveries were mostly anticipated, we are clearly disappointed by the margin performance in transportation," Doerksen said in a client note.
Translated Hindi: "It is important to note though that the fourth-quarter margin was in line with our expectations." Hindi: "किसी भी कैंसील जब निकलते है तो उसके म

Original English: We believe that Bombardier will receive new orders for the CSeries as the flight test program progresses.
Translated Hindi: The CSeries will not be a full-fledged product for several years, being a new airplane designed along the new technology. However, our partner will still pay maintenance, repairs, and overhaul expenses to Bombardier’s supply chain. As a result, our revenue will still increase in the short term

Original English: However, if no new orders are announced in the coming months, we suspect that the market will become more skeptical of the program.
Translated Hindi: In that case, we think that the market will be disappointed if the program continues to be implemented in its current form.
Hindi: आपके से हमें आखिरी बार भी अच्छा

Original English: Bombardier hopes the CSeries aircraft family can catapult it into the low end of a market now dominated by Boeing and Airbus.
Translated Hindi: The company has spent $3.4 billion developing the CSeries and expects to lose about $1 billion before it begins deliveries in 2014.
Hindi: Bombardier ne CSeries air craft family ko is market me apne low end ke liye jaan bujhane ke li

Original English: The first test plane was unveiled in March and took flight for the first time in September after months of delays.
Translated Hindi: The plane is considered a test bed for military applications, including high-speed data collection and communications, as well as anti-ballistic missile detection and tracking. The B-2 is designed to be highly survivable against enemy air defenses, with the ability to fly deep into enemy territory and drop large payloads of

Original English: But firm orders for the CSeries are moderate so far at 177 as potential buyers wait for flight test results to validate the company's claims about the new jetliner's fuel efficiency and cost savings potential.
Translated Hindi: CS300 orders are roughly half of those for the CS100. Bombardier expects to complete its first test flight of the CS100 in the third quarter; the first flight of the CS300 is expected in the first quarter of 2016. CSeries flight tests are slated to begin in the

Original English: There are currently 403 total orders and commitments with 15 customers and operators.
Translated Hindi: The backlog includes 316 firm orders and 87 options.
Hindi: अभी तक के अनुमानों एवं प्रतिभागों की संख्या 403,

Original English: Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin was confident Bombardier would meet its 300 firm order target by the time the first jet is put into commercial use.
Translated Hindi: “We’re still on track for 300 firm orders in 2014,” he said. “We have 252 firm orders as of today, and we’re still on track to deliver 60 or 70 aircraft before the end of the year.” Beaudoin declined to comment on a report

Original English: Executives also reassured analysts and media on Thursday the program was progressing according to schedule.
Translated Hindi: The company has said it would complete the first phase of the program by the end of the year, with the second to follow in 2014.
Hind: विचारकों की लगभग हर व्यक

Original English: "The test plane didn't stay on the ground longer than anticipated," Beaudoin said in a conference call, adding that ground tests and software updates were scheduled during the plane's downtime.
Translated Hindi: "We are going to be flying again."
Hindi: "तीसरी क्रांति फ्लाईयर ने दूरी को दिखाए जाने से बह

Original English: Every manufacturer schedules it in a different way.
Translated Hindi: But, let’s say you go to the store and buy a new refrigerator on Monday. You should set the temperature at 5 degrees Celsius on the Tuesday that you get home. On Wednesday, you should check that the temperature is still at 5 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, if the temperature is

Original English: We had decided to do a first flight and to do an update period and that's what we have done.
Translated Hindi: We have seen that the stability of the drone and the precision of the flight are very good. We also have a very good camera, we have managed to do a very good flight image. This is the summary of the first flight.
Hindi: Humne decide kiya tha ki hum ek first

Original English: That will happen all through the flight program.
Translated Hindi: For the time being, we have to keep them on the ground.
Hindi: Yeh sab kabhi-kabhi flight program mein hoga. Kabhi kabhi abhi hum unhe ghar mein rakhna padta hai.
Now, translate the following text from Hindi to English

Original English: The second of five test planes is expected to take flight in the coming weeks, with the remainder following shortly after, the company said.
Translated Hindi: It did not say when the drones would be available to the public.
Hindi: कौनसी सेंटर ने यह बात कहा थी कि उन्होंने अपन

Original English: Still, analysts are skeptical the first customer can begin operating a CSeries plane 12 months after its maiden flight.
Translated Hindi: “There’s a lot of work to do,” said one. “You’ve got to move the next stage, and it takes time, it’s not a smooth process.”
Hindi: अंतरराष्ट्रीय: आज जो

Original English: Bombardier said it was evaluating the entry-into-service (EIS) schedule and will provide an update in the next few months.
Translated Hindi: Bombardier has been working with the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and the Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) on the development of a standardised reporting format that will allow industry stakeholders to assess the amount of carbon emitted by the aviation industry on a uniform basis.
Hindi translation:

Original English: "This slow pace of flight testing - although in line with Bombardier's internal schedule apparently - reinforces our view that entry-into-service will be pushed to Q1/15," said Doerksen.
Translated Hindi: "We believe the longer it takes to deliver the aircraft, the more the cost per aircraft will rise. This should be the primary focus for Bombardier to manage at this time."
Hindi: कॉमर्सकॉमबिर्ड्यर

Original English: For the third quarter ended September 30, Bombardier's net profit fell to $147 million, or 8 cents per share, from $172 million, or 9 cents per share a year earlier.
Translated Hindi: Excluding items, the company earned 5 cents per share, matching the average analyst estimate. Revenue rose 2 percent to $4.47 billion.
Hindi: भारत में 10 अक्टूबर के चौ

Original English: Adjusted earnings per share were unchanged at 9 cents.
Translated Hindi: Net profit attributable to shareholders was $13.1 million, down 10% and EBITDA was $24.4 million, down 4%. 
Hindi : अधिकतम लाभ रूपी अभिल

Original English: Revenue dipped marginally to $4.1 billion from $4.2 billion.
Translated Hindi: We expect the overall performance to be in line with our expectations for the quarter. The Home and Personal Care segment saw a growth in sales of 4 percent and 7 percent in constant currency and reported terms, respectively. The Africa, Middle East and Turkey region registered the strongest growth of 6 percent

Original English: Analysts had expected earnings of 10 cents per share and revenue of $4.56 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Translated Hindi: Excluding items, the company earned 24 cents per share, excluding items, and revenue was $4.63 billion.
Hindi: Analysten hatten erwartet, dass die Ergebnisse bei 10 Cent pro Aktie und Umsatz bei 4,56 Milliarden Dollar lie

Original English: The world's fourth-largest planemaker said it delivered 45 aircraft during the quarter, down from 57 a year earlier.
Translated Hindi: It said that while deliveries are going to plan, it has had to ramp up its efforts to cut costs in the face of a slower-than-expected ramp-up of production. It said it is now cutting 1,000 jobs in France and 800 in Germany, having previously announced plans to cut

Original English: Net orders fell to 26 aircraft, from 83.
Translated Hindi: Gross orders increased to 74 aircraft, from 59.
Hindi: बाकी ऑर्डर्स खत गयें 26 अभियान, 83 अभियान से

Original English: The backlog in the aerospace division was $32.9 billion as of September 30, unchanged from December 31.
Translated Hindi: The backlog in the other divisions was $2.9 billion, up from $2.8 billion. The total backlog was $35.8 billion, up from $35.7 billion.
Hindi: असामान्यवाद टीका

Original English: "In aerospace, results were in line with our guidance, but the low order intake and overall market conditions were a disappointment," Beaudoin said.
Translated Hindi: "We saw a significant decline in the U.S. and European defense markets and a downturn in the commercial aviation aftermarket. Our aerospace business is now flat for the year and we are working to reverse the trend."
Hindi: "विमाननीया में

Original English: Aerospace revenue fell 13 percent to $2 billion.
Translated Hindi: The company’s defense and power systems were the only parts of its business that saw growth in the quarter.
Hindi: वायुसेना की लागत निरक्षम 13 प्रतिशत आग

Original English: Bombardier, the world's largest trainmaker, said revenue in that division rose nearly 11 percent to $2.1 billion.
Translated Hindi: The company's quarterly profit more than doubled to $403 million, or 64 cents per share, on a 3 percent rise in revenue to $8.9 billion. Bombardier shares rose 0.6 percent to C$3.89 in early trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.

Original English: The order backlog in the transportation unit was $32.6 billion as of September 30, up marginally from December 31.
Translated Hindi: Total backlog for our business is $37.5 billion as of the end of the third quarter.
Hindi: 3Q 2014 Earnings Conference Call (9/22/2014) TRANSLATION NOTES:
1. "Transportation" is the correct word to use here.

Original English: The transportation division's margins were affected by execution issues in a few large contracts.
Translated Hindi: The division's strong cash flow generation and healthy balance sheet are expected to support its business plan execution. The company's overall performance in the quarter was not satisfactory, mainly because of execution issues in a few large contracts.
Hindi: Transport division ke marg ke upar niyamit rup se

Original English: Executives said new guidance would be provided in the fourth quarter.
Translated Hindi: The guidance excludes the effects of accounting changes and the impact of the potential sale of the Australian assets. The company's financial results are expected to be released May 3, 2007. About Reliance Industries Limited Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) is India's largest private sector company on all

Original English: Shares of Bombardier, which also announced that Google Inc Chief Financial Officer Patrick Pichette would join the board, were down 8.5 percent at C$4.83 in mid afternoon trading on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: They have fallen by a third in the past 12 months, and by 70 percent since their 2007 peak.
Hindi: बम्बड़यर के प्रति दिन प्रतिशत का न

Original English: Brazil's Embraer SA, the world's third-largest commercial planemaker and Bombardier's closest rival, reported a 10 percent fall in quarterly profit on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: The company, which is majority owned by the Brazilian government, said net income fell to $32.3 million, or 9 cents a share, in the second quarter ended June 30, compared with $36.1 million, or 10 cents a share, a year earlier.
Hindi

Original English: New research has revealed that we work with complete honesty and dedication in the morning hours.
Translated Hindi: In the evening, our work is half-___ and in the night, we work with a lot of ___.
Hindi: नई अनुसूची ने बताया है कि हम अच

Original English: Thoughts of lying to anyone and theft or cheating someone do not enter our heads.
Translated Hindi: But the fact is that in our day to day life, we do not lie to anyone in such small things. There is something called white lie, which is a way of telling lies, whose intention is good. In other words, it is a kind of lie. And all of us tell white

Original English: But as the evening comes, our minds change and we set aside our principles and we go against the accepted norms.
Translated Hindi: The sun sets and the stars come out and one can see the light.
Hindi: Par jab shaam aati hai, to hamari dimaag mein samajh badal jaata hai aur hum apne pramukh chintan ko dur karke, samay ke

Original English: In research carried out by Harvard University and the David Axle School of Business, Utah, researchers have revealed some interesting facts.
Translated Hindi: In a survey of 17,000 people, it was found that 5% of people who won the lottery were happier after one year, while 75% of people who found $5,000 in the street were equally happy one year later.
Hindi: हार्व

Original English: According to researchers, while we don't have work pressure in the morning we attach importance to moral values, but as the evening sets in, due to fatigue or extra pressure our honesty declines.
Translated Hindi: This is called the "morning versus evening morality" phenomenon. In other words, in the morning we are good people and in the evening we are not. When we are not under pressure we are honest, but when we are under pressure we start cheating. For example, we drive our car slowly

Original English: To test this researchers did two experiments.
Translated Hindi: In the first experiment they separated the two groups of children into two camps. Each camp had a leader who gave the children instructions. In one camp the leader made the children do the work by himself and in the other camp the leader divided the work amongst the children and had the help of the children.

Original English: They asked some subjects to count the number of dots on a computer screen.
Translated Hindi: The subjects were asked to press the F1 key when they had counted a total of 100 dots. The experimenters then asked the subjects to hit the F3 key to stop the dots from appearing on the screen. The subjects then had to answer questions about the dots, like: “How many

Original English: For example, subjects had to say if the dots were more on the right or left-hand side.
Translated Hindi: The dots were not visible, but their shadows were.
Hindi: जानकारी के अनुसार, यूजर्स अलग-अलग प्रकार के

Original English: Participants were then told that if they give the wrong answer rather than the correct answer they would be given money.
Translated Hindi: The principal did not know what the participants would do.
Hindi: ही के बाद अपने जानकारी के अवधि तक अथवा विश्व

Original English: This experiment shows that those who took part in the experiment in the morning between 8 and 12 did not make any mistakes and they gave the correct answers.
Translated Hindi: However, those who did the experiment later in the afternoon between 12 and 4 did make mistakes. This is because the brain is more active in the morning than in the afternoon.
Hindi: यह अनुच्छेद जो अनु

Original English: At the same time, those who took part in the experiment between 12 noon and 6pm set aside their morals and intentionally gave wrong answers.
Translated Hindi: As a result, they were paid Rs 500.
Hindi: Ek prakar ka adhyayan 12 baje se 6 baje ki sham tak kiya gaya tha. Is adhyayan ke darshan ke karan, jo 12 baje se 6 b

Original English: Researchers have succeeded in proving that in the morning the greed for money does not affect our honesty, but in the evening we chose to ignore morality.
Translated Hindi: In an experiment conducted by the economists from the University of Chicago, the researchers found that when a person has a lot of money in the morning, he becomes more honest when he is given a little money in the evening.
Hindi: रसीधारों ने

Original English: The research is published in the current issue of Psychological Science.
Translated Hindi: The journal is published by the Association for Psychological Science.
Hindi: जारी नये में विश्लेषण के दस्तावेज में उपलब्ध ह

Original English: After the robbery, the robbers left waving pistols.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: जब बंदों ने घोटाला करते हुए दबाते बाहर उतरे थे।
Short Answer Questions
Q

Original English: Relatives admitted the wounded to the hospital in a critical condition.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: आदेशवार एक ज़्यादा गंभीर रूप से प्रवाह शिक्षा की थीं।

Original English: Sunder s/o Sohanveer, a resident of Madhi Village, had recently retired from the post of junior engineer from the Electrical Department.
Translated Hindi: He got married in 1964. His wife died in 1997. He has four children aged between 22 and 38. His oldest son, Sunder, died in July 2013. He had the problem of heart. He died during the operation. He was 39 years old

Original English: On Wednesday he was returning home on his bicycle after withdrawing 44 thousand rupees from the Bhola branch of the Syndicate Bank.
Translated Hindi: When he reached his home he gave 20 thousand rupees to his wife, 20 thousand rupees to his son and kept 4 thousand rupees with himself. While he was sleeping the house was surrounded by 3-4 people wearing masks and armed with knives and guns. They started to

Original English: On the Bhola to Marhi road, two men riding a bike came from behind and robbed Sundar and took the 44 thousand in cash.
Translated Hindi: The police are searching for the robbers. Hindi: भोला से मारही रोड पर, दो लोग बाइक पर चल रहे थे और स

Original English: When Sunder protested they shot him in the stomach, wounding him.
Translated Hindi: When he was badly hurt and unable to walk, they started to urinate on him. When he pleaded with them to stop, they said, ‘No, we’ll urinate on you.’ Then they took a knife and cut off his penis and testicles.
Hindi: Sunder ne protest ki

Original English: Upon hearing the news, family members and villagers rushed him to the hospital in Meerut in a serious condition.
Translated Hindi: A case was registered against them under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.
Hindi: Khushi ke baad, parivaar aur gaon ke log aapas me sath akraman ke liye hospital mein ja rahe the. 302 IPC ke rajaniti

Original English: No report was filed until the news was reported.
Translated Hindi: So I filed a complaint with the police.
Hindi: न द ख द य ह त ए प य त न न न ख द य ह त ए त वर व ध न

Original English: Note that three days ago Jasveer, a resident of Ammanulapur, was shot and injured while returning home from the same bank by two robbers.
Translated Hindi: It is not clear whether the robbers who were out to rob the bank had killed him or he was shot by the police constable who was on duty. Meanwhile, a resident of Ammanulapur, who was returning home on a motor cycle, was shot and injured by unknown persons in front

Original English: The police could not reveal any information about many more similar recent cases besides these.
Translated Hindi: It seems that the police are not much interested in solving the cases of theft.
Hindi: Police ne sabhi jadi murgiya jaisi naye jadi murgiya ka koi bhi jankari nahi di hai. Police ko yeh samajh mein n

Original English: S/o Sumer Singh Yadav claimed that the details of the incident would be revealed soon.
Translated Hindi: The students of the school have been told to stay indoors.

Q: 11. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: A 17-year-old schoolboy died after a fight with his classmates. The incident happened at the school in the morning.
A: Hindi: एक

Original English: When the hotel employees protested the fight began.
Translated Hindi: The security guards of the hotel arrested the terrorists.
Hindi: ।और बाहर के कई जगह घबराया जाता है। केंद्र स

Original English: R.K. Singh, the hotel owner's younger brother came to mediate, the MP's drunken son started a scuffle with him.
Translated Hindi: R.K. had to be hospitalized with a fractured jaw.
Hindi: R.K. Singh, hotel ke nayak bhaiya, MP ke charo aur chhote bhaiyon se jhagada shuru karne laga aur ek saval ke jaw par dawai

Original English: In the meantime, a lot of people gathered there.
Translated Hindi: They all were eager to see the king. The king was standing on the other side of the road. There was a big crowd on both sides of the road. They were waiting for the king to come. The king came with his entourage. The king was riding on the elephant. The king

Original English: When an attempt was made to grab the assaulting youth he fired the revolver.
Translated Hindi: The police fired in the air to disperse the mob and then fired on the youth. It was alleged that the youth was a member of the Bajrang Dal and was trying to forcibly take over the house of a Muslim youth. After this, the police arrested the youth.
Hindi: Y

Original English: The shooting triggered panic in the area.
Translated Hindi: Police said the incident appeared to be a case of road rage.
Hindi: गली/गले में दरगाह के लिए बाहर गुजारेंदे का

Original English: After this the hotel employees caught him and informed the police.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यहाँ पर फिर छोटी सी चीज के बाद देखा गया कि उसके आगे इस छो

Original English: The hotel owner, Munna Singh, on reaching the police station filed a report against Anand Pandey, son of MP Gorakhnath Pandey, a resident of Barecha Pahadpur at the Koirana station in the Bhadohi district.
Translated Hindi: Anand Pandey was involved in the murder of his wife, Soni.
Hindi: नगर निगम ने, मुन्ना सिंह ने, वरमहाराज गोर

Original English: Upon which the police arrested Anand and seized his revolver.
Translated Hindi: Police interrogation revealed that Anand had a grudge against the deceased for having taken away his girlfriend. He had gone to the deceased’s house with a revolver with the intention of killing him. Anand was tried under Sections 302 and 34 IPC, and was convicted for murder. The High Court

Original English: According to Handiya Inspector Ashok Saraswat, Munna Singh, a resident of Pratapgarh in Khabhor, runs a hotel called Raag Durbar on the National Highway.
Translated Hindi: On 12 June last year, he came to Handiya and introduced himself as an ACP of the Pratapgarh Police. He asked for a room in the hotel and stayed there for four days. On the night of 15 June, he ordered dinner and after that he left the

Original English: At around 8pm Anand Pandey arrived at the hotel and ordered food.
Translated Hindi: After eating, he took out a bottle of whisky from his bag and mixed it with the orange juice. He took a few sips and slept. When he woke up the next morning, he found the orange juice bottle empty.
Hindi: Abhut 8 bje Anand Pandey

Original English: When the service was delayed, he started shouting abuse, assaulting the staff and shooting.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह सेवा विस्तार के बावजूद अनुसार की गई , उसने धूम धाम कर

Original English: Anand was drunk and he also threatened to kill the hotel employees.
Translated Hindi: He was detained by the police.
Hindi: Anand ne drunk the ke bawajood bhi ek hotel ke employees ko maara aur un par bhi jaan dalnaa chaahte the. Wo police ke saamne bhed-bhaav mein the.
4.

Original English: The inspector said that the Hotel is near Bhiti Village and adjacent to Bhadoi District.
Translated Hindi: So, you should go to Bhiti Village and from there you should go to the hotel.
Hindi: Inspector Ne Kaha Hai Ki Hotel Ko Bhiti Village Se Milane Ke Liye Apko Yahan Se Bhiti Village Pahuchana Hai. Aur Jab Tum Yahan P

Original English: Cocaine-addict lawyer who tipped off Mr Big about police investigation is jailed
Translated Hindi: for 2 years.
Hindi: धीरे-धीरे फायरिंग में शामिल हुए दायरे प्रशिक्षण व

Original English: Basharat Ditta, 42, would feed information to crime lord Neil Scarbrough
Translated Hindi: and in return was given £30,000 a year.
Hindi: बशरात दीता, 42, कट फटाहट देने के लिए नई नी

Original English: The solicitor feared his secret drug addiction would be exposed
Translated Hindi: . Hindi: या लोगों को गुनाह होने की चेष्टा में वा अच्छा वकील गुनाह की

Original English: Was given a three-year prison sentence at Liverpool Crown Court
Translated Hindi: today on the 27th of April for Health and Safety Offences following the death of two workers in June 2013.
Hindi: प्रति रोजगार सुरक्षा अनुदय होन

Original English: A top defence lawyer who told a drugs Mr Big about a major police investigation, because he feared his secret drug addiction would be exposed, has been jailed for three years.
Translated Hindi: The QC, who has not been named, admitted breaching his professional duty of confidentiality, but he claimed he had been pushed to the brink of suicide by his addiction. A court heard that he had told the drugs underworld figure about the undercover police operation, fearing he was about to be rumbled by

Original English: Basharat Ditta, 42, would feed sensitive intelligence to crime lord Neil Scarbrough about inquiries into his drug trafficking activities after he became compromised by his cocaine habit.
Translated Hindi: He would then be rewarded with a free line of cocaine for his efforts. But now the foreman of a steel fabrication firm has been jailed for nine years after he admitted passing on information to help Scarbrough avoid arrest.
Hindi: बशरत दित्त

Original English: The solicitor, who was nicknamed "Bash" and hailed by criminals as a "top brief," was arrested at his home in 2011 following a police surveillance operation into Scarborough, who he had represented in a previous narcotics trial.
Translated Hindi: The solicitor was accused of supplying cocaine to a client, and he was found guilty of conspiracy to supply the class A drug. At the time, he was the most senior figure to be convicted of drug dealing since the 1990s.
Hindi: ये यह द

Original English: Officers spotted Sarborough, 32, dropping off three bags of cocaine at the lawyer's home in Blackburn, Lancashire, while he was out at a Law Society dinner with colleagues.
Translated Hindi: The cocaine was found to have a purity of 85 per cent and had a street value of more than £31,000. The police evidence was so convincing that the judge, Mr Justice Pitchford, said that he had no hesitation in finding Mr Sarborough guilty. The lawyer, who specialises

Original English: Inquiries revealed Ditta was a "regular user" of the Class A drug after tests found traces of cocaine in his hair, on his wallet and on his credit cards.
Translated Hindi: His wife had also used the drug and some of the money used to buy it was from the sale of the couple's home.
Hindi: आदरणीय अधिकारी जानने के लिए

Original English: Over an eight month period between January and August 2011 he sought to illicitly obtain information on the arrests of two men on behalf of Scarborough as well as one of his associates.
Translated Hindi: The arrests related to the killing of a police officer in the USA. During their conversation on 26 May 2011, Scarborough told the source he was working on a case involving two men who had been arrested in connection with the killing of a police officer in the United States. He told the source

Original English: All four suspects were being watched by police at the time as part of a major investigation into a heroin and cocaine racket operating across Lancashire, Cumbria, Merseyside, Berkshire and West Yorkshire.
Translated Hindi: The gang were taking over 200 kilos of heroin a month into the North West.
Hindi: एवं ट्राट िवकार द िर प्रकार की दूंगी ड

Original English: They and 32 other men were later jailed after police seized heroin and cocaine worth £1.5million along with more than £200,000 in cash during a series of raids.
Translated Hindi: The drugs were believed to have been hidden in the lorry which was bound for France.
Hindi: वे और 32 अन्य लोग फिर से गिरफ्तार हो ग

Original English: Ditta, 42, fed information to criminals because of fears his cocaine addiction would be exposed
Translated Hindi: . In 2010, he was jailed for 20 months for giving information about police raids to a drug dealer. He said he was asked to work for criminals after he was released from prison. Ditta, who has served seven years in jail, said he was lured into working for them

Original English: Today at Liverpool Crown Court Ditta, who works at law firm Forbes Solicitors, based in Blackburn, was facing disgrace after being found guilty of two counts of perverting the course of justice following a three week trial at Liverpool Crown Court.
Translated Hindi: Ditta was found to have fraudulently altered documents in order to stop an NHS trust from recovering over 20 thousand pounds, which had been paid out in error, to another company. Ditta was sentenced to 15 months imprisonment, suspended for two years, ordered to complete 30 days of

Original English: He admitted cocaine possession at an earlier hearing.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह उनके परामर्श के अनुसार अभी भी पीछे में कोकाइन उपभोक्ता थ

Original English: The lawyer's downfall came after police investigating Scarborough discovered he had been in regular phone contact with Ditta in February 2011.
Translated Hindi: The officer was concerned about the frequency of the calls and was aware of Ditta's criminal history.
Hindi: युरोपीय संघ के एक विधायक का सफाई शक्त

Original English: Two detectives trailed the suspect and spotted him arriving at Ditta's house in and was seen to place the drugs which had a purity of 60 per cent under the lawyer's bins in a black golf glove.
Translated Hindi: The detectives were waiting for him when he left and arrested him.
Hindi: दो कपर आगे बार की गई और डाटाया का घर आने के ब

Original English: Soon after the drop off, Scarborough was in regular phone contact with Ditta who had been out at the dinner at the Blackburn Rovers football stadium, Ewood Park.
Translated Hindi: The conversation was heated and short and Scarborough claims that Ditta was angry about the decision to refuse his visa application. Scarborough also claimed that Ditta said “I’ll be waiting for you at the airport”. 
Hindi: Agay ke baad, Scarborough regularly phone ka kaam start karke

Original English: The lawyer returned home to discover the drugs and there were nine communications between them.
Translated Hindi: The next time he met her, he told her that they should have sex, she replied that she wanted to be paid for it. They had sex in his car, she left, and he told her that he would pay her. She replied that she wanted to be paid in advance. He told

Original English: The court heard Ditta was a "regular user" of cocaine after tests found traces of the Class A drug in his hair, wallet and on his credit cards
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: Court me Ditta ko Regular Cocaine user bataya gaya. Cocaine Class A drug me hair, wallet, credit card pe trace me gaya gaya hai.

Use the following words to fill in the blanks. Choose the most appropriate meaning (a-d) for the

Original English: Ditta was arrested later but denied using cocaine and and said he had been speaking to the suspected dealer because he was his client and argued their discussions were subject to "legal privilege."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: डिटा ने इस बारे में भी एक बार प्रभावी रोका और है जिसका उल्ल

Original English: During his arrest Ditta picked up his wallet and tried to remove several credit cards but they were all seized and a hair sample was taken fom him.
Translated Hindi: He was then placed in a cell in the police station at 7:45 a.m. When he asked for a telephone call to the Consulate, he was told that this was not possible and that he would only be allowed to make a call when he was in court. He was not allowed

Original English: In a police interview he said he ran an office at his home address as well as work place and clients would call at his house on legal business.
Translated Hindi: He told police that he had met the complainant at his office in Bhopal. He told them that he had initiated contact with the complainant and he had told him he wanted to get married and he was looking for a bride. The complainant had said he had a sister and her name

Original English: But the court heard he would call major players in the drugs supply chain, some of whom he had previously represented, after key arrests to tell them what detectives knew about them.
Translated Hindi: He then allegedly gave instructions to the supply chain, which led to the arrest of others including dealers. He is alleged to have offered to pay police officers to keep his clients' names out of court.
Hindi: एक दवा ड्रग्स की

Original English: Prosecuting, Anne Whyte said: "If anyone should know not to the break the law, it is a criminal solicitor."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: पर्यावरण के निम्‍न गया राष्‍ट्रीय प्रादेशिक कानून की गणन

Original English: Mr Ditta is accused of abusing his position as a criminal solicitor, having become too involved with specific clients.
Translated Hindi: This led to the possibility of a conflict of interest, which is prohibited under the law. The Law Society of England and Wales’ rules state that “a solicitor must not put himself/herself in a position where his/her ability to serve his/her client’s interests is or may be adversely affected

Original English: The relationship we are talking about is not simply a drug dealer, but a drug dealer providing his own lawyer with drugs.
Translated Hindi: This is not an ordinary drug dealer, but an organized crime leader, who has been sentenced to life imprisonment, who has been convicted for drug dealing, and who is now in prison. He is talking about a relationship, according to his testimony, with a lawyer, a lawyer who has been convicted by

Original English: Some of his communications will undoubtedly have been legitimate ones because he was their lawyer.
Translated Hindi: But others may have been intended to cover up the activities of his client, who is alleged to have paid millions of dollars in bribes to secure a contract.
Hindi: Kuch hisaab se ve keval lawyer ke roop mein hi baatein hamari communication ko legitimate kar sakta

Original English: But this went way beyond the ordinary confines of a lawyer-client relationship.
Translated Hindi: The doctor wanted to get his hands on a child's body.
Hindi: Par yeh sab normal lawyer-client relationship se zyada tha. Doctor usse ek bachche ki jindagi ki taakat ko lekar chahta tha.
Please check the accuracy of the Hindi translation

Original English: He thwarted the police's investigation as much as possible to enable them to continue in their criminal activities.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: आपका दर्जा पुलिस की सर्च अण्ड अण्ड अण्ड के अण्ड अण्ड अण

Original English: Mr Ditta was not honouring his profession, but dishonouring it.
Translated Hindi: He was not a man worthy of trust but a man who was given to indulging in unpleasant things.
Hindi: दिता ने अपनी काम का कर्तव्य नहीं किया

Original English: He got too close to certain clients, in particular Scarborough, and he allowed his independence to be compromised.
Translated Hindi: He was on the board of the Hotel Corporation, which was not acceptable. He was in the business of serving as a board member and not as a board member of the Hotel Corporation. The board of the Hotel Corporation was a political board, and it was not acceptable for him to be there as a

Original English: Ditta denied wrongdoing and claimed: "If I was a corrupt lawyer, which I am not, and I wanted to feed information to Mr Scarborough, I would not wait 15 hours, I would do it immediately."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: धीता ने गलती करने और गुणवत्ता उठाया। "क्या मैं गुणवत

Original English: But after the hearing Supt Lee Halstead from Lancashire Police said: "Mr Ditta turned from criminal solicitor to a criminal himself the moment he started obtaining drugs from organised criminals."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अब तक लेक्शर का हीडिंग दाखिला शिर्षक के अनुसार, लैंसशाय

Original English: His addiction to cocaine left him hopelessly compromised and vulnerable to the motives of leading members of organised crime groups who tasked him to obtain valuable information regarding police investigations.
Translated Hindi: His ‘services’ were sold to the highest bidder and he provided information to other organised crime groups in addition to the Mafia.
Hindi: उसके कोक़ानी में आलस्य हुआ था जो

Original English: Solicitors should uphold the highest standards of integrity and should instil trust and confidence in the public.
Translated Hindi: They should act with integrity and objectivity, and be independent and impartial when dealing with clients and other parties.
Hindi: Advocates shuld maintain the highest standards of integrity and should instil trust and confidence in the public. They should act with integrity and objectivity, and be independent and impartial

Original English: Mr Ditta has betrayed this trust and attempted to hide behind the veneer of his profession.
Translated Hindi: The profession of chartered accountancy is synonymous with trust and honesty. Mr Ditta has betrayed the trust and honesty of chartered accountancy profession. He has betrayed the trust and honesty of his employer and his clients. He has brought disrepute to his profession and tarnished the image of his

Original English: Lancashire's Serious and Organised Crime Unit led the investigation into Mr Ditta which has also seen him convicted of three counts of possession of cocaine and now perverting the course of justice, demonstrating our commitment to bringing criminals to justice.
Translated Hindi: Senior Investigating Officer, Detective Inspector Frank Yates said: “Ditta was clearly a drug dealer and he was a drug dealer with an attitude. He believed he was above the law and would do anything to protect himself and his assets. However, he was not able to avoid the justice system for long

Original English: Let this case serve as a warning to criminals that no one is beyond the reach of the law.
Translated Hindi: The government has come down heavily on such businessmen and has arrested them.
Hindi: इस शक्ति पर अनुभाग है कि कुछ डालने वाले क्राम

Original English: We will find you and put you before the courts.
Translated Hindi: You will be prosecuted.
Hindi: Hum tumhe dhoondenge aur tumhe saaman lagaaayenge. Tumhe kanoon ke saamne daalenge. Tumhe kanoon se lagaaenge. (Transliterated Hindi: Hum tumhe d

Original English: Scarborough himself was jailed for 14 years after pleading guilty to conspiracy to supply heroin, cocaine and cannabis.
Translated Hindi: He was released in 2007.
English: He was jailed for 14 years after pleading guilty to conspiracy to supply heroin, cocaine and cannabis. He was released in 2007.
Hindi: इस शब्द का अनुवाद

Original English: Thirty five other men involved in the racket were jailed for a total of 153 years for drugs offences.
Translated Hindi: Judge Mary Lorimer told the men: “By selling these harmful drugs to young people you have made yourselves no different to the dealers in the street.
Hindi: यहाँ नहीं तो अतिथि आते हैं

Original English: On his website Ditta gave a question and answer session about himself in which he says his fantasy job would be a lawyer representing clients on Death Row in America, his ultimate dinner guest as being Mohammed Ali and inequality as his motivation for work.
Translated Hindi: He is also a member of the Human Rights Association of Turkey.
Hindi: उनके वेबसाइट पर दिता ने अपनी स्लाइड की बातें

Original English: Kenyan press outraged at controversial media law
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अमेरिकी टीवी की वापसी रिपोर्ट्स का
इसके साथ रिपोर्टर, एक

Original English: "It is a frightening place, and it is valid to ask: what is there to prevent Parliament from simply sweeping away the independence of the judiciary tomorrow?" the paper said, challenging the bill as unconstitutional.
Translated Hindi: The bill, the latest move by Modi to tighten his grip on power ahead of a general election due by May, was proposed after a young woman, who accused a senior politician of rape, was found murdered in New Delhi in December.
Hindi: "Ye sabse pasand hai, aur log

Original English: "This law is draconian and very punitive and we reject it," said Cyrus Kamau, managing director for Capital Group - home to CapitalFM, one of Kenya's most respected independent radio stations and news websites.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: "Ye dushprachari aur vikas ke pramukh rup se kanoon hai aur ham isse ninditi karate hai," Cyrus Kamau, Kenya ki sabse majood independent radio stations aur news websites ke liye Capital Group ko

Original English: He said the new media tribunal "will always be biased because it's an extension of the government," and that restrictions on content and advertising would damage Kenya's place in the global economy.
Translated Hindi: He added that Kenya was the only country in the region where the economy was growing, but that the government was "killing the economy" by restricting content and advertising.
Hindi: Wo kaha ki neeche likha hua jo bhi kahate hain us par hi ham

Original English: "I hope the president will listen to us, and we appeal to him to reject this bill and return it to the MPs," he said.
Translated Hindi: "It is a bill that should not be passed at any cost. It is a bill that will make the country less secular, less tolerant and less democratic."
Hindi: "हमारे प्रधानमंत्री ने हमें स

Original English: According to The Star newspaper, the new bill will effectively hand the government "a stranglehold over the media," while The Standard said democracy and free speech in Kenya had been "dealt a major blow" and lambasted the bill as "draconian."
Translated Hindi: The opposition has also said that the bill would stifle the media, which it sees as an important check on the government's power.
Hindi: टाडी के दौरान, नई बिल अभी त

Original English: The passing of the bill comes amid a string of measures to reinforce national security in the wake of the September's attack by Islamist gunmen on the Westgate shopping mall.
Translated Hindi: The bill will also allow Kenyans to be deported to their home countries on the suspicion of terrorism. The bill includes harsher penalties for terrorist attacks, including life imprisonment and death. It also allows courts to hold suspects without charge for 30 days, up from the current 24 hours. Human

Original English: Kenya media drew the ire of authorities by broadcasting security camera footage of troops who were dispatched to the scene of the attack purportedly robbing the upmarket mall.
Translated Hindi: The footage showed soldiers looting goods from the mall as well as drinking beer and eating ice-cream. The authorities were dismayed that the media had gained access to the footage. Authorities were also angry that the footage had been released to the media.
Hindi: के नई

Original English: Police chief David Kimaiyo reacted by summoning two journalists and a media executive for questioning, although the summons was retracted following a media outcry.
Translated Hindi: The statehouse has, however, remained silent over the police conduct.
Hindi: पुलिस नीति प्रमुख डेविड कीमयाव उन व्यक्ति

Original English: Under the new bill, media houses can be fined up to 20 million Kenyan shillings and individual journalists up to one million with the additional risk of being "de-listed," or barred from receiving official press accreditation.
Translated Hindi: The bill also contains a provision requiring the media to "take responsibility" for any inaccuracies in their reporting.

Hindi: नया पंजीकरण के अनुसार उम्मीदवार

Original English: The tribunal also has the power to seize the property of an offender if a fine is not paid.
Translated Hindi: If an offender is unable to pay the fine, the court can imprison the offender for a period not exceeding one year. The maximum fine is Rs. 5000. (Source: http://www.legalaffairs.gov.np/info/legislation/constitution/eng/eng_13_

Original English: According to the Daily Nation, "even one fine is enough to cripple most FM stations."
Translated Hindi: The newspaper notes that the Communications Authority of Kenya has issued an order suspending operations of several radio stations in the country for failure to meet financial obligations. The latest round of fines came after the National Cohesion and Integrit...

Original English: It also said the measures could have a devastating effect on what it described as Kenya's "lively blogosphere."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: ने यह भी कहा था कि इन प्रयासों को करने से भारत की लगातार ब्लॉ

Original English: By silencing the media, politicians know they can do whatever they like with impunity.
Translated Hindi: They are accountable only to the voters, and if they are not re-elected, they will be out of a job. And that is why journalists - like the police - are the last line of defence against crime and corruption
Hindi: Danav ki police ne media ko gherna shuru

Original English: "No one will ever know," wrote Nation journalist Mutuma Mathiu, describing the Kenyan media as a key source of checks and balances in public life.
Translated Hindi: "This is what I have always known, and what I will continue to know for as long as I live. The truth is the greatest weapon we have against those who would deceive us, and so we cannot just let it go."
Hindi: “आवाज़-

Original English: "Left to themselves, politicians would bankrupt the country and take us back to hunting and gathering," he wrote.
Translated Hindi: "The state," he added, "is not a machine that can be run efficiently with a minimum of government."
Hindi: "Bas chale toh, samajwadi apna desh bhul kar, ek bar phir se bant jaye aur hum kahin se

Original English: Kenyan lawmakers have been the target of public anger in the past.
Translated Hindi: In 2009, the governor of Nairobi, the capital, was found dead along with his wife and son. But such killings are rare in Kenya. Kenya has a population of about 40 million, but only 300 people are murdered each year. Most murders are committed by criminals who are trying

Original English: In May they voted to overturn cuts ordered by the national salaries commission and reinstate their hefty salaries of around 532,000 shillings a month tax-free - ranked among the highest in the world.
Translated Hindi: But the decision to hold the polls was taken by the electoral commission which is still chaired by the retiring president and the key decision making body is the cabinet. The cabinet is made up of the president, the vice president, the prime minister and the 42 ministers. The president’s office also confirmed that

Original English: Although Nita Ambani, the wife of the world's richest Indian, Mukesh Ambani, celebrates her birthday on November 1st, as the clocks struck twelve on the night of October 30th, the whole of Jaipur began to celebrate Nita Ambani's birthday.
Translated Hindi: The hotel Oberoi in Jaipur's Moti Dungri area was converted into a huge stage, where hundreds of artists and dancers from Jaipur and other cities had gathered in the night of October 30th to perform a cultural program. The Oberoi had also made a special arrangement for a

Original English: Prior to that, the mood of the occasion had already been set by A.R. Rahman and his group's performance.
Translated Hindi: The Indian music maestro, known for his melodious and romantic music was in his element as he sang a medley of love songs from his own repertoire. The audience cheered and clapped along as Rahman taught them a few dance steps. His spirited performance, which was a mix of classical music and

Original English: A.R. Rahman sang his signature songs in the musical evening that started at 8 p.m.
Translated Hindi: and went on till midnight. The melodious songs added to the festive spirit of Holi. The atmosphere was charged with enthusiasm.
Hindi: (B) A.R. Rahaman ne gana gaaya tha. Gane 8 baje shuru hua aur mid-night tak chal

Original English: Priyanka Chopra was on stage to add colour with her dances.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: प्रियंका चोपड़ा ने कलर के साथ अपनी डांस्स को अपनी एंट्री भर

Original English: Guests arrived in around 32 chartered aircraft to attend Nita Ambani's birthday party.
Translated Hindi: We have never seen such a grand party.
Hindi: Nita Ambani ke bash me 32 chartered flight me guest aye the. Unhone kabhi aisa party nahi dekha.

English: Most of the guests in the party are from Bollywood industry and most of them

Original English: As space at Jodhpur Airport was inadequate, the chartered planes landed at Jaipur, Delhi, Udaipur and Jodhpur.
Translated Hindi: However, as the need for more space was felt, the Government acquired a 50-acre plot of land and its acquisition was completed in 1953. The work of construction was started in 1954 and completed in 1956. Beside the Civil Enclave, an Air Force Enclave

Original English: same way 135 luxury cars were also used, including BMWs and Jaguars.
Translated Hindi: The 4,000-odd passengers included members of the royal family, ministers and other officials. The total cost of the 48-hour trip was 1.7 million pounds. (IANS)
Hindi: Yehi vishwaas hai, 135 rikshaw mein b

Original English: Sood said that the city's sanitation system and street lights had totally broken down.
Translated Hindi: He said that the city's water supply system had also been affected.
Hindi: सूद की कहा गई कि शहर की स्वच्छता संस्थान और द

Original English: No steps were being taken by the municipal corporation and HUDA to run Panchkula city centre.
Translated Hindi: The whole township is facing difficulties due to lack of cleanliness and sanitation.
Hindi: मुख्यनगर और ह य ड उन पचक ला स टर क त चल रह त

Original English: He demanded the complete abolition of house tax in Panchkula.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Usne Panchkula mein ghar ka tax pura karane ki prarthana ki.

English: Me and my friend always used to watch movies together. Hindi: Main aur mere dost har din movies dekhne ki aadat kar li thi.

English: My father

Original English: On Friday, while addressing a press conference here, V.K. Sood said that, after the municipal corporation elections the city got a new councillor and mayor, but they do not have the powers necessary to get the work done.
Translated Hindi: He said that the new mayor and councillor should be granted more power so that they can carry out their duties properly. He said that the councillors are not given any power and they get no respect in the city.
Hindi: शनि के प्रति दावा

Original English: So the city councillors have become dummies and officers are doing as they pleased.
Translated Hindi: The power of the civic body has gone into the hands of some people.
Hindi: इसके अवर, शहर के निर्वाचनकर्मक बिगड़े ज

Original English: Sood said that the municipal corporation has crores of rupees at its disposal, but all the money is in the form of Bank FDs and interest is being earned on it.
Translated Hindi: The reason for this is that the municipal corporation has not spent the money on development works and has not spent anything on other projects. Sood says that he has said a lot about this, but the municipal corporation has not accepted his suggestions. Sood said that the municipal corporation has not even spent a

Original English: So no steps are being taken to use that money for the development of the city.
Translated Hindi: The same money is being used to pay the debts.
Hindi: यह तो यहाँ पर रेशमी को व्यवस्था के लिए का उपयो

Original English: V.K. Sood said the refuse dump issue is the most serious problem.
Translated Hindi: (1061)
Hindi: V.K. Sood ne kaha ki, garbage deposite se sabse bada prashn hai. (1061)
English: The most serious problem is garbage dump. (1061)
Hindi: Garbage deposite se sabse bada

Original English: By creating a dump in Sector 23, people living in sectors beyond Ghaggar are forced to live a hellish life.
Translated Hindi: Dumping of garbage in Sector 23 has become a serious problem in the past few days.
Hindi: Sector 23 mein toh dump kar diya gaya hain, doston, jisse Sector 23 se bhaag ke jo log Sector Ghaggar ke bahar r

Original English: The municipal corporation officers have been talking about shifting the dump to the village of Jhuriwala for the past several years now, but the inhabitants of the Barwala area are already facing a serious problem with flies.
Translated Hindi: The residents are demanding that the dump should be shifted to some other place as it is being left on their heads.
Hindi: देशना के कुछ अधिकारकों ने प्राकृत

Original English: He said that healthcare and educational facilities are extremely bad.
Translated Hindi: In the last few years, many big names from the film industry have died. The younger generation is not able to get good education. The number of youth is increasing. They have no money for their education. The youth of our country is moving towards the western countries. They are very capable. The

Original English: No work has yet been started to provide facilities for rural inhabitants.
Translated Hindi: Work is in progress for the installation of a sewerage system and to provide potable water. The situation is satisfactory in rural areas. The population is living in good health.
Hindi: Nishchit nahi hai ki sahayak samasyaon ka abhi tak koi k

Original English: UN hails new goals to tackle poverty
Translated Hindi: , hunger, climate change
Hindi: यूनिसेफ मुख्य समीक्षा अधिकारी से दावा किया गया है क

Original English: The United Nations is to start work immediately on a new set of goals to replace the millennium development goals, which were put place 12 years ago to tackle global poverty.
Translated Hindi: The UN says the new goals will focus on the areas of poverty, education, health and the environment.
Hindi: उदय नगर, वर्ष 2000 एवं वर्ष 2015 के

Original English: Australian diplomats played a key role in pushing for "sustainable development goals" to replace the MDGs, which expire in 2015, ahead of the UN sustainable development summit that began in Rio de Janeiro overnight.
Translated Hindi: The new goals are expected to be approved at the summit, which will be attended by world leaders and representatives of more than 190 countries.
Hindi: अस्वीकृत इचारियों द्वारा आ

Original English: They were included in the final draft of the document, which will be endorsed by world leaders including Ms Gillard during the summit.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उनको भारत के कुछ उप राज्यों सेंध से अंतिम निर्णय पत्र में शाम

Original English: UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told the summit overnight that now is the time to "rise above national interests."
Translated Hindi: He said the international community had failed to act with solidarity and urgency in the face of the crisis.
Hindi : यू न यायावको राष्ट्र विवेक की गवाही क

Original English: "I am pleased that member states have agreed to launch and take ownership of a process to establish universal sustainable development goals - SDGs," he said.
Translated Hindi: "These goals will feed into the post-2015 development agenda."
Hindi: "mera is prati kushata hai ki bharat ke sath member states agree kar rahe hai jala aur aapne aap ko isko establish karna aur aapne pa

Original English: These SDGs will build on our advances under the millennium development goals, and they will be an integral part of the post-2015 development framework.
Translated Hindi: They will address the root causes of poverty and unite us together to make a difference on the issues that matter most to us all.
Hindi: Ye SDGs humari Millennium Development Goals ke anurup ishara nahin hai, balke iske ishara ke prati humare

Original English: I will spare no effort to implement the mandate given to me by member states to realise our vision of sustainable development goals that build on the success of the MDGs.
Translated Hindi: The goals are ambitious and transformational, and we must rise to the challenge.
Hindi: मैं अधिकतर देशों द्वारा मुख्य राज्य द्व

Original English: Mozambique security concerns mount as powerful personalities clash
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मुज़ाबीक़ बल में बढ़ता है सुरक्षा चिंता जब बड़े परिच

Original English: With a statue of Samora Machel, Mozambique's founding president, staring down on them, thousands of people gathered in central Maputo to chant peace slogans in a rare public demonstration.
Translated Hindi: The protest was called to demand an end to fighting in the neighbouring Congo, where a UN peacekeeping force is trying to restore order after the bloodshed triggered by the death of rebel leader Laurent Kabila. The Maputo rally, the first since a state of emergency was imposed in the wake of the

Original English: "We want peace back; we want stability," said Vanessa de Sousa, chief executive of an investment company.
Translated Hindi: "We want to feel safe; that is the most important thing for us."
Hindi: हमें शांति वाला जीवन चाहिए। हमें शांति व

Original English: Fearful about the future of her country, she swapped her corporate attire for a T-shirt emblazoned with "we demand security" in Portuguese as she joined the crowds in the capital's Independence Square on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: The 35-year-old mother of one gave up her job as an executive assistant at a private firm in 2009, after Brazil was chosen as the host for this year's World Cup and the 2016 Olympics. "For me, it's a question of personal integrity because these mega-events

Original English: For two weeks, there have been almost daily reports of clashes between government forces and Renamo, some of the worst skirmishes since a peace deal more than 20 years ago.
Translated Hindi: It is a reminder that Mozambique’s 16-year-old democracy has long been strained by the conflict. Since 2012, the country has been rocked by an insurgency in the northern part of the country. Government forces have pushed back the insurgents, but as recently as April, they kidnapped 12

Original English: Renamo was once a notorious rebel movement, initially backed by white-ruled Rhodesia and then South Africa's apartheid government as part of efforts to destabilise the country's independent government.
Translated Hindi: But in recent years Renamo has been sidelined by Mozambique's main opposition party, the former rebel movement Renamo tried to take over the government in the 1990s and early 2000s in a civil war in which 1.2 million people died. In 2014,

Original English: After a 1992 peace deal, it became an opposition party.
Translated Hindi: It continued to oppose the government and supported the LTTE. It won the 1994 election, but the government rigged the election and arrested the leader of the party. The party was banned. But it still remained popular.
Hindi: 1992 में शांति

Original English: Analysts believe the country is unlikely to slide back into full-blown conflict, but recent events have unnerved foreign investors and locals.
Translated Hindi: “Speculation is growing that the government is unwilling to rein in the army,” says Imtiaz Gul of the Centre for Research and Security Studies in Islamabad. “Pakistan is at a crossroads. If the army doesn’t exercise restraint, the situation could quickly spiral out of control.” Hindi: Analyst

Original English: The stakes are high for the fast-growing economy as the discovery of huge offshore gas reserves and coal deposits in the northwest could bring in more than $50bn of investment over the next few next years from companies including Rio Tinto, Vale of Brazil, Eni of Italy and Anadarko of the US.
Translated Hindi: China has also shown interest in investing in the energy sector.
Hindi: Fast-growing economy ke liye bahut hi aham kadam hain. Gas aur coal ke offshore reserves ke discovery se yeh 50bn $ investment ke baad kuch saal me companies ke liye aur

Original English: The ruling Frelimo party, the dominant political force since 1975, and Renamo blame each other for the tension.
Translated Hindi: The two sides have been engaged in a civil war since 1976.
Hindi: थेरीलोमो पार्टी जो 1975 से देश का अलग सिद्ध है

Original English: Renamo says the government initiated the latest clashes by launching an attack on its members in Sofala province, traditionally a Renamo stronghold, on October 17.
Translated Hindi: The government says it has been responding to Renamo attacks and intimidation in central and northern Mozambique.

Hindi: रिनोमो ने बीते दिनों के दौरान सरकार उ

Original English: Assaults on the former rebels then escalated as government forces attacked Renamo bases and attempted to kill Afonso Dhlakama, the group's leader, Fernando Mazanga, Renamo's spokesman, told the Financial Times.
Translated Hindi: Renamo's attacks on civilians and on the road to the central Mozambique port of Beira have also increased and more than 30 civilians have been killed in the past 10 days, he said.
Hindi: शक्तिगत सीज़ने के

Original English: The government blames Renamo for triggering the clashes, accusing it of attacking soldiers.
Translated Hindi: Maputo, Mozambique - Mozambican President Armando Guebuza has accused the opposition Renamo party of being behind recent clashes between the army and rebels in central Mozambique, where at least 15 people have been killed. Guebuza told the state-owned STV television on

Original English: President Armando Guebuza has sought to play down concerns about instability.
Translated Hindi: He has, however, promised to hold a referendum to end Mozambique’s political turmoil and to solve the long-running problem of the Renamo rebels.
Hindi: President Armando Guebuza ki pradhanmantri ne kaha ki arthik shanti ki koi baat

Original English: Mr Guebuza told AFP, the French news agency, on Wednesday that Mr Dhlakama saw himself as a "loser" who wanted to use "whatever remains of his forces to try to prove that he can impose on the government his own decisions."
Translated Hindi: Mr Guebuza said he was prepared to use "whatever force is necessary" to defeat Mr Dhlakama.
Hindi: Mr Guebuza द्वारा अपने साथी लिखा गया

Original English: Both Frelimo and Renamo insist they want to avoid war.
Translated Hindi: But as long as the Mozambican government denies the possibility of a negotiation. Many people fear a return to conflict.
Hindi: फलीमो एवं रेनामो निर्धारित है कि

Original English: But concerns have grown after Mr Mazanga was quoted as saying Renamo was abandoning the 1992 peace accord.
Translated Hindi: Mr Mazanga was quoted by the state-run daily Noticias as saying his party had set aside the treaty, but he later denied making the statement.
Hindi: मरे जब यह गये, रणमो के न

Original English: He told the FT that he meant the agreement was no longer being respected by Frelimo.
Translated Hindi: French: Il a dit à l'AFP qu'il voulait dire que la paix n'est plus respectée à partir de 1992.
Spanish: El dijo al FT que la paz ya no es respetada a partir de 1992.
German: Er sagte gegenüber dem

Original English: "Our vision is to come back to negotiations, but with seriousness," Mr Mazanga said.
Translated Hindi: "We are aware that the government has made some proposals, but we believe they are not enough. We shall give them a list of our demands. We want the government to put our demands in writing and we shall then consider coming back to the negotiating table."
Hindi: "Humne yeh

Original English: Previous talks between the parties have done little to ease tensions fuelled by a series of clashes this year.
Translated Hindi: The latest skirmish took place on August 27, when the Indian army said it had killed two Chinese soldiers in the Pangong Tso region. China has not confirmed the incident, but called it a "planned provocation" by India. Tensions have been high since the start of May

Original English: "It's two big men (Guebuza and Dhlakama) butting heads together," said Joseph Hanlon, a lecturer at the Open University and Mozambique expert.
Translated Hindi: "The question is how long can this go on? A week? A month? A year?"
Hindi: “तभी तो दोनों बड़े मले (Guebuza और Dhlakama)

Original English: Neither of them are good negotiators and neither of them are prepared to make the kind of concessions that are necessary.
Translated Hindi: Neither of them are prepared to make the kind of concessions that are necessary, so it’s very difficult to predict how things will end up. Neither of them are good negotiators, and neither of them are prepared to make the kind of concessions that are necessary, so it’s very difficult to predict how

Original English: Renamo, which has been pushing for electoral reforms, had already said that it would boycott municipal elections due in November.
Translated Hindi: In a press conference in Maputo, the leader of the party, Alfonso Dhlakama, said that "if there are no changes in the political system, we will not participate in the elections".
Hindi: रेनमो का आज न

Original English: Presidential and parliamentary polls are scheduled for next year.
Translated Hindi: The incumbent president will be seeking a third consecutive term.
Hindi: अमेरिका में अमेरिका में भाग्यशाली राष्ट्रपति और

Original English: Some commentators have interpreted its use of force as the attempt of an ailing movement to win concessions and financial spoils from the government.
Translated Hindi: The movement has been accused of being a front for the Muslim Brotherhood. The Muslim Brotherhood rejects this claim and has condemned the use of violence.
Hindi: यह समाचार को कुछ समाचारकारों के

Original English: Renamo's share of the vote has been declining since 1992, while a newer party, the Democratic Movement of Mozambique (MDM) which was formed by a former Renamo member, is expected to improve its showing at the elections.
Translated Hindi: The MDM is likely to win 5% to 10% of the vote in the capital Maputo and 5% to 10% of the vote in the central provinces of Sofala and Manica. Renamo is also likely to win 5% to 10% of the

Original English: Mr Mazanga says Mr Guebuza - who is due to step down when his second term ends next year - wants to destroy the country's democracy.
Translated Hindi: Mr Guebuza denies the allegations. They have come at a sensitive time for the country. Mr Guebuza's Frelimo party is expected to win general elections next year and the government has been blamed for a growing wave of attacks on opposition politicians. Mr Dhlakama has

Original English: "He does not want multi-party democracy, he does not want transparent elections he does not want peace because he does not want to leave the presidency," Mr Mazanga said.
Translated Hindi: "That is why he is creating uncertainty and chaos, so that he can cling onto power." Hindi: "Unhein mulikachchh nahi chahiye, unhein shudh tareekh nahi chahiye, tathastu durgatn

Original English: It is unclear how much capacity Renamo has, but it has carried out disruptive hit-and-run attacks on police stations and vehicles on a key north-south highway.
Translated Hindi: Renamo fighters have also attacked railway lines and killed civilians. The government has taken some steps to restore security, including by reinforcing police posts and stations in the centre of the country. But the army has not yet been deployed to tackle Renamo’s presence in the centre of the country. Military operations in

Original English: Most of the skirmishes have taken place in Sofala province, which is several hundred kilometres north of Maputo, but hosts Beira, the port that miners, including Rio Tinto and Vale, rely on to export coal.
Translated Hindi: Maputo, the capital, is far from the conflict zone. Protesters have attacked coal firms, but also those from other sectors. There have been complaints about the cost of living, which has been rising as the economy has struggled and the value of the local currency, the metical, has dropped

Original English: In June, Rio suspended its use of the railway for about a week after Renamo threatened to attack the line.
Translated Hindi: This led to the suspension of production at two bauxite mines, which forced Rio Tinto to cut production of aluminium by around 1,500 tonnes of the metal. Renamo’s leader, Afonso Dhlakama, has ordered his troops to occupy the line, which they have begun

Original English: Mr Mazanga was coy when asked about whether Renamo would repeat this threat.
Translated Hindi: He said that he was not the candidate of the opposition, but of the Mozambican people.
Hindi: मज़ांग ग़ाज़ा को युगांग मुख्यमंत

Original English: Renamo wanted to "warn the international community that things were not going well in Mozambique," Mr Mazanga said.
Translated Hindi: "We are at war and it is the responsibility of the international community to take its share of the responsibility."
Hindi: रेनमो ने कहा कि किसी भी मामले में वह भ

Original English: The instability has added to frustrations with the government, says Fernando Lima, head of Mediacoop, an independent media company, with many people also concerned about corruption, the slow pace of development and a recent spate of kidnappings.
Translated Hindi: “The people are very disappointed, and I think the government is very scared,” Lima says.
Hindi: यह असमय रूप से परमाणु नीति लोकतंत्र का

Original English: "People think the ones responsible for the future of the country are the government and the president, and he should be the one to find solutions for the problems," he says.
Translated Hindi: "I think it's the people who need to find solutions for their problems, because they know their problems better than the government."
Hindi: "Parinaam ke liye log desh ke masail ka saamna karne ke liye kisi bhi pradhan (prime

Original English: Omar Sultuane, a demonstrator, said people just wanted stability.
Translated Hindi: "We are not belonging to any political party. We are here to protect our homeland, to protect our rights and to protect our dignity. We are here to tell the world that we are here. We will not let the regime to do anything in our homeland. We are here to tell the government

Original English: "No one cares about Renamo and Frelimo, they just want peace again, they want free access to the roads," he said.
Translated Hindi: "But Renamo is not a police state, they just want their rights, a little freedom. That's all."
Hindi: "नों बताओ रनामो और फ्रेलिमो, वे एक

Original English: Children should be taught myths and legends as "models for a way of life", author says.
Translated Hindi: Danish: Børn bør undervises udfra myter og legender som "modeller for en måde at leve livet på", siger forfatter. Norwegian: Børn bør undervises ut fra myter og legender som "modeller for

Original English: Tales of Thor could show "brute strength is no match for subtle trickery," while the Arthurian legends reveal the importance of having a dream.
Translated Hindi: The ancient Greeks believed that without heroes, the gods would have no one to interact with.
Hindi: थोर ने कहा, देश में प्रवेश करने वाले देशभ

Original English: Saying many of the myths would be "far too wild, far too scandalous and in some cases far too filthy to be taught in schools," Crossley-Holland advocated a "careful selection" of age-appropriate works.
Translated Hindi: "I would not recommend that you read this book to your child at the age of 5," he said. "What's the point in doing that? You're better off reading 'Harry Potter' to your child at the age of 5, than reading this book to them."
Hindi

Original English: "I find it wonderful that in America, myth and folklore already has a part in education," he said.
Translated Hindi: "For example, the story of George Washington and his cherry tree. In Mexico there are lots of stories that are part of the educational process, but many of them are very old. We are trying to adapt our old myths and legends into stories children can read and learn from."
Hindi: "

Original English: I have been advocating it as a plan for twenty years.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मैं इसके लिए प्रथम शहर जारी होने के बाद शहर की वापसी जीवन द

Original English: He added authors and teachers being "overtly didactic" is a "total switch-off" for children, with messages being "subliminated" in enjoyable stories.
Translated Hindi: He suggested that the "teacher's voice", as opposed to the "author's voice" should be dominant in writing for children, and also asked teachers to "take control" of children's reading, and not leave it to chance.
Hindi: वे लगात

Original English: Crossley-Holland, who has translated Beowulf from Anglo-Saxon as well as writing the Penguin Book of Norse Myths and British Folk Tales, said: "You may well have intentions but you do better to keep them well out of sight."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह न्यायालय के अध्यक्ष ने कहा कि यह अवकाश और अन्तर्गत विप

Original English: Perhaps the big difference between an adult author writing for an adult and an adult author writing for a child is the necessity for some sense of hope.
Translated Hindi: Having a story that is uplifting, the characters overcoming obstacles, sexual or personal, some kind of redemption or triumph over evil. It’s too easy for an adult to simply write a story about a good person doing bad things or vice versa, but it’s a lot more interesting and hopeful to write about

Original English: Not that everything has to be simplified or come to a happy ending, but that there is an innate sense of good and evil.
Translated Hindi: People instinctively know the difference. What is right and what is wrong. It is what drives us. It is what makes us human. Now, I would argue that the stronger that our sense of right and wrong is, the more human we are.
Hindi: Hindi: यह

Original English: And that must be subliminated; revealed through a story rather than stated.
Translated Hindi: The word must be the thing itself, not merely a symbol of the thing. In the same way the self must be the story, not merely a symbol of the story. The self must be fully present in the story, as it is in reality.
Hindi:
English: And that must be

Original English: The old basis of showing not telling.
Translated Hindi: “In the land of the blind, the one eyed man is king” is an example of English: The old basis of showing not telling. “In the land of the blind, the one eyed man is king” is an example of
Hindi: इंग्ल

Original English: Samvaad Associate, Ghumaarvi: the head constable, Om Prakash, retired after serving the Police Department for 32 years in Ghumaarvi.
Translated Hindi: He was posted as head constable in the police station of Ghumaarvi for 25 years. He was made the head constable in the year 1994 and was promoted to the rank of head constable after a year. He was appreciated by the superintendent of police and inspector for his

Original English: To celebrate the occasion the employees and officers of the Police Department organised a farewell party.
Translated Hindi: All of them gathered at the Police Club and danced the night away. At the end of the party, a vote of thanks was proposed by the SI of Police to the inspector, who was retiring.
Hindi: Polisi men bharat ke prati nayak bhaavon ka

Original English: Om Prakash is a resident of Bhapral village in Bhapral gram panchayat.
Translated Hindi: He has developed a waterlogging problem in his land due to construction of a pond in the upstream. He has complained about this to the Panchayat and the Gram Sabha. The Panchayat has appointed a Committee to resolve this issue. The committee has gone to the site and found that

Original English: He served very well throughout his entire tenure.
Translated Hindi: He was also a very efficient and hardworking worker. He also had very good leadership qualities. He was also a very good manager. He was very dedicated to his work. He was also a very good and intelligent man. He had a very good sense of humour. He was very popular among his

Original English: Ben Greenman: The Tenth Anniversary of the New York Comedy Festival: The New Yorker
Translated Hindi: , 31 October 2011
Hindi: बेन ग्रीनमन (डा.) : साल सप्तदश (पश्चिम भारत के शहर न

Original English: One could argue that New York City is the birthplace of standup comedy in America: nearly a hundred years ago, the vaudevillian Frank Fay, who served as the master of ceremonies at the Palace Theatre, on Broadway, started telling jokes directly to the crowd, in a conversational manner.
Translated Hindi: Fay, who was known for his improvisational skills, would also interact with members of the crowd, and even tip them. He was the first comedian to be paid for his act. He also had a radio show, and was a popular talk show guest.

Hindi: न्य

Original English: Fay's innovation has been extended through the years, most recently by the New York Comedy Festival.
Translated Hindi: A couple of years ago, he launched the annual Women in Comedy Festival in Boston to highlight the talents of women in comedy. This is the perfect event for anyone who believes that comedy is not just for men.
Hindi: फेै नि' तंगर

Original English: Created and overseen by Caroline Hirsch, the founder of the standup institution Carolines, the festival celebrates its tenth anniversary this year, with more than sixty shows at small clubs and large theatres.
Translated Hindi: The festival is also known for its high-profile panel discussions, which bring together entertainment figures for conversations about the industry.
Hindi: इस विषय पर कारोलीन हिर्ष ने अपने एक

Original English: "Most of these headliners appeared at Carolines, and went on to greater success, to the point where they're too big to play a club," Hirsch said.
Translated Hindi: "We're trying to bring them back down to earth." Hindi: इस लेख के अनुसार नैज़ स्टेटस के लिए ज्योतिष का

Original English: We built this festival as a way of continuing to work with them.
Translated Hindi: I think there is an important role for us to play in celebrating the way in which young people express their creativity and aspirations, and to make sure that they get appropriate recognition. A lot of young people are not making it into the art world, and I think we need to do a lot more to

Original English: This year's event includes appearances by Wanda Sykes, Kathy Griffin, and Bill Maher, as well as "Stand Up for Heroes," an annual music-and-comedy benefit for military veterans, at Madison Square Garden, featuring, among others, Bruce Springsteen, Jon Stewart, Roger Waters, and Bill Cosby.
Translated Hindi: The festival's films, meanwhile, will include a screening of "The Central Park Five," the documentary about five black and Latino teenagers wrongfully convicted of a rape in 1989 before being exonerated by DNA evidence, as well as a panel discussion with the filmmakers and the real-life participants.

Original English: As the festival has expanded, so has the world of comedy.
Translated Hindi: This year’s festival features 366 shows, 1,800 comics and 66 venues, and the usual array of top acts from the world of comedy such as Eddie Izzard, Peter Kay, Les Dawson, Graham Norton and Lee Evans.
Hindi: ये तो क

Original English: Several of the comedians participating in this year's festival came up through nontraditional channels, such as shows on smaller networks, like Comedy Central, FX, and Spike.
Translated Hindi: These channels have helped to create a more diverse comedy landscape, with more women, minorities, and LGBT comedians becoming stars.
Hindi: इस वर्ष के कॉमेडी फैस्टिवल में श

Original English: Nick Kroll rose to prominence on a deep-cable sitcom (FXX's gleefully raunchy fantasy-football-themed "The League") and now has his own Comedy Central sketch show.
Translated Hindi: He can also be heard voicing a character in the "Ice Age" franchise. He talks about the differences between stand-up and sketch comedy, the highlight of his year at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre, and being an entrepreneur.
Hindi: Nek Kroll से प्रम

Original English: Jenny Slate has been a cast member on both "Saturday Night Live" and "Parks and Recreation," though she is best known for her viral video series "Marcel the Shell with Shoes On."
Translated Hindi: (The short films have been viewed more than 45 million times.) She is also a regular performer at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in New York City and has appeared in films like "Obvious Child" and "Everything, Everything."
Hindi: जेनी स्ल

Original English: Both Kroll and Slate, as well as other young comedians with distinctive voices (the surreally pessimistic Anthony Jeselnik, the wry, racially focussed W. Kamau Bell), are products of the decentralized world of American comedy.
Translated Hindi: They’ve got stand-up sets in different cities. They appear on shows on different networks. They are not necessarily associated with any one club or network.
Hindi: वह शेर्ली और स्लेट, अपनी व

Original English: One of the festival's biggest draws will be an interview: David Steinberg talking to Larry David.
Translated Hindi: The latter is a co-creator of the hit HBO show “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” and I’m sure he’ll have a lot to say about the show, which is set in Los Angeles. The interview will be followed by a screening of a new episode.
Hindi: ए

Original English: Steinberg started as a standup comedian but has become an accomplished television and film director, as well as an unofficial comedy historian.
Translated Hindi: His 1997 feature film “The Comedian” was adapted from a story he wrote in high school and later adapted from a screenplay he wrote in college. In 2004, he won a Writer’s Guild of America Award for his short film, “The Last Cigarette,” which he

Original English: From 2005 to 2007, he hosted a show on TV Land called "Sit Down Comedy with David Steinberg."
Translated Hindi: He has also been a writer and director for the TV Land sketch comedy series, "TV Land Confidential".
Hindi: 2005-2007 में वह सीट डाउन कॉमेडी के शो के

Original English: The meeting takes place at Town Hall, in the center of Manhattan.
Translated Hindi: It is a large building with a lot of rooms, including a large room with a high ceiling, where the meeting will take place. It is October 10th, 2019 and the time is 4:00 pm.
Hindi: भाग्यशाल

Original English: "The city is definitely in the comedy DNA of all of Larry's work," Steinberg said.
Translated Hindi: "The story is as important as the character in Larry's work, and the story in this particular film was really about what it means to be a man and how you define yourself as a man and how you act as a man, and that was really interesting to us."
Hindi: "

Original English: He was telling me that, when he's here, sometimes he'll walk down an alley between two buildings and think to himself, Hey, if I lose all my money, maybe I'll live here.
Translated Hindi: Maybe I'll give up my apartment and live in an alley.
Hindi: Woh mujhe kah raha tha ki jab woh yahan hain, tab kahin pe ek gali mein chalte hi jab tak mein apne sab ghar bhaag chuka h

Original English: Oil extends drop toward $96 a barrel
Translated Hindi: as demand cools
Hindi: Oil ki tisari jhatke ney $96 mein pahunchey, supply meyn hain

Answer

English: Oil extends drop toward $96 a barrel as demand cools
Hindi: Oil ki tisari jhatke

Original English: The price of oil continued to fall on Friday as concerns over high supplies offset a report showing China's power-hungry manufacturing sector is strengthening.
Translated Hindi: The price of oil fell to US$101.64 a barrel.
Hindi: Oil ka pric ka 3 dinon se adhik fall hone laga hai. China ke gairkaam ummidwar vyaktiyo ka strong manufacturing sector aarop ki wajah

Original English: Benchmark U.S. crude for December delivery was down 14 cents at $96.24 a barrel by late morning in Europe in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Translated Hindi: The contract rose 21 cents to close at $96.38 per barrel in New York on Thursday. Brent crude, a benchmark for international oils used by many U.S. refineries, was down 15 cents at $107.63 a barrel in London.
Hindi: अमे

Original English: The contract fell 39 cents on Thursday, leaving it down 5.8 percent for the month of October.
Translated Hindi: It was the first monthly loss in three years.
Hindi:
English: An estimated 250,000 people in the northeastern U.S. were without power on Friday as a result of Hurricane Sandy, which has killed at least 16 people this week.
Hindi:
English: The U.S.

Original English: Ample supplies of crude have weighed on the price in recent weeks.
Translated Hindi: Crude oil inventories in the U.S. have been above the five-year average for 17 consecutive weeks.
Hindi: Crude oil inventories in the U.S. have been above the five-year average for 17 consecutive weeks.
It is a simple translation of the sentences. No further

Original English: The Energy Department said Wednesday that U.S. supplies increased 4.1 million barrels last week.
Translated Hindi: That followed a 12.8 million-barrel decline in the previous week.
Hindi : इंग्लिश में ये टेक्स्ट पढ़े कि यह नई डि

Original English: Over five weeks, supplies have risen by more than 25 million barrels.
Translated Hindi: We have seen an increase of more than 20 million barrels over the last two weeks alone. More than 10 million barrels were added in the past week alone. The market is well supplied. Prices are too high. Consumers and businesses are paying the price. The President has asked OPEC to open

Original English: But a suggestion of stronger demand came Friday from two reports on Chinese manufacturing that showed an uptick in activity.
Translated Hindi: The surveys, published by HSBC and the Caixin media group, suggested that manufacturing in China may be stabilizing after a yearlong decline.
Hindi: लगता है कि च िन में मेरठ निर

Original English: That suggests China's economic recovery could continue to strengthen after growth rebounded to 7.8 percent in the third quarter from a two-decade low in the previous quarter.
Translated Hindi: We expect GDP growth to cool to 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter, but still comfortably above the government's target of 7.5 percent for the whole year.
Hindi: यह आइडिया चीन की आर

Original English: Brent crude, a benchmark for international crude also used by U.S. refineries, fell 26 cents to $108.58 a barrel on the ICE exchange in London.
Translated Hindi: U.S. crude oil for June delivery fell 14 cents to $99.42 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Hindi: Brent crude, एक ब्याज बीज इंटरनेशनल क

Original English: Court blocks ruling on NYPD stop-and-frisk policy
Translated Hindi: Hindi: न्यायालय कॉर्ट ने न्यायालय पर छापे वार के आर्टीकल रूल

Original English: A federal appeals court on Thursday blocked a judge's order requiring changes to the New York Police Department's stop-and-frisk program and removed the judge from the case.
Translated Hindi: In a 2 to 1 decision, the judges on the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan said the changes ordered by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in August were not warranted by the evidence.
Hindi: डीआरच

Original English: The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the decisions of Judge Shira Scheindlin will be stayed pending the outcome of an appeal by the city.
Translated Hindi: The ruling is a blow to the city’s efforts to stop the court’s oversight of policing in the city.
Hindi: Ḥeṣṭaat meṛe liye 2 U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ko yeh batī gai ke

Original English: The judge had ruled in August the city violated the Constitution in the way it carried out its program of stopping and questioning people.
Translated Hindi: The city said it would appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, but on Tuesday it said instead it would drop the appeal and rewrite its policy. The judge has set a hearing on the settlement for December 21. The judge ruled that the city had violated the rights of Latinos and blacks by targeting

Original English: The city appealed her findings and her remedial orders, including a decision to assign a monitor to help the police department changes its policy and training program associated with it.
Translated Hindi: The city also argued that the reporter, who had recently been fired from the department, was biased in his reporting of the chokehold incident.
Hindi: शहर ने उसे अपनी नियम्यताओं के

Original English: The appeals court heard arguments Tuesday on the requested stay.
Translated Hindi: The court did not rule on the request, and said it would take several days to make a decision.
Hindi: Appeal court mein 6th June ko arguments dekh rahe thay. Appeal court ne isi request ko reject nahi kiya, aur is request ko decide karne ke

Original English: The appeals court said the judge needed to be removed from the case because she ran afoul of the code of conduct for U.S. judges by compromising the necessity for a judge to avoid the appearance of partiality in part because of a series of media interviews and public statements responding publicly to criticism of the court.
Translated Hindi: Hindi:
इंग्लिश: जमामड़ी कोच को उसकी नीति के अनुसार जमामड़ी क

Original English: The judge had ruled that police officers violated the civil rights of tens of thousands of people by wrongly targeting black and Hispanic men with its stop-and-frisk program.
Translated Hindi: He had ordered a comprehensive overhaul of the program and had set a July 2016 deadline for police to demonstrate that they had made enough changes to avoid a federal monitor. A federal appeals court in Manhattan had upheld the judge’s ruling.
Hindi: न्यायाधी

Original English: She appointed an outside monitor to oversee major changes, including reforms in policies, training and supervision, and she ordered a pilot program to test body-worn cameras in some precincts where most stops occur.
Translated Hindi: She also put in place a new smartphone application, known as “See Something Say Something,” that allows residents to report crimes or suspicious activity anonymously through their phones. In an attempt to reduce the number of arrests for low-level offenses, she has dramatically reduced the number of people being held on bail without trial

Original English: In August, New York City agreed to end the practice of storing the names and addresses of people whose cases are dismissed after a police stop.
Translated Hindi: The judge added that the city of New York should keep the data for six months and then purge it. The decision came in response to a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union of New York in 2010. The lawsuit claimed that the practice was unconstitutional.
The court noted that the NYPD had

Original English: An oral argument on the city's appeal is scheduled for sometime after March 14, 2014.
Translated Hindi: An oral argument on the school district's appeal is scheduled for sometime after April 18, 2014. This Court will issue an order in each case setting out the dates and times of the oral arguments.
Hindi: श्री प्रधानमंत्री

Original English: The stop-and-frisk tactic has been criticized by a number of civil rights advocates.
Translated Hindi: However, a 2012 study by the New York Civil Liberties Union (NYCLU) found that in 2011, the year when the NYPD made more than 600,000 stops, only 10% of those stopped were black and 4% were Hispanic. Additionally, only 1

Original English: Stop-and-frisk has been around for decades in some form, but recorded stops increased dramatically under the administration of independent Mayor Michael Bloomberg to an all-time high in 2011 of 684,330, mostly of black and Hispanic men.
Translated Hindi: After a federal judge ruled that the city's police had engaged in a “pattern or practice” of discrimination, the program was scaled back but is still used extensively.
1. राष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा के गई हु

Original English: A lawsuit was filed in 2004 by four men, all minorities, and became a class action case.
Translated Hindi: This case was brought before the United States Supreme Court which found that the state of Texas had used race as the predominant factor in drawing the state’s congressional districts. The Court found that this was a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and ordered Texas to redraw the lines.
Hindi: आप

Original English: Supporters of changes to the NYPD's stop-and-frisk program say the changes will end unfair practices, will mold a more trusted and effective police force and can affect how other police departments use the policy.
Translated Hindi: Translating into Hindi:
New York City police commissioner Ray Kelly has announced that the NYPD will change its stop-and-frisk policy. The policy will be changed so as to end unfair practices. It will mold a trusted and effective police force and it can affect how other police departments use the policy.

Original English: Opponents say the changes would lower police morale but not crime, waste money and not solve a broader problem of a police force under pressure after shrinking by thousands of officers during the last decade.
Translated Hindi: And they claim it would create wide disparities in the pay of police across the state.
Hindi: अंग्रेजी : अनुक्रमणीयों के अनुसार ये परिव

Original English: The judge noted she wasn't putting an end to the stop-and-frisk practice, which is constitutional, but was reforming the way the NYPD implemented its stops.
Translated Hindi: The judge said that the city's primary goal should be to prevent crime, not to increase the number of stops.
Hindi: न्याय अच्छा से लागू कर तिथी यह नह

Original English: Huge numbers of participants from Godda, Pakuf, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh and Chatara districts took part in the training.
Translated Hindi: The participants were very enthusiastic and committed to implementing the learning’s of the training in their respective districts. The participants had their own plans and ideas to improve the quality of work and service delivery.
Hindi: गोद्दा, पाकुफ, जम

Original English: All the participants were trained in many disciplines over a period of seven days, including pitching tents and erecting flag poles.
Translated Hindi: They were also taught basic combat techniques, including how to operate weapons, and how to use communication devices.
Hindi: सभी उपविश्वासी एक शीर्षक के अपने द

Original English: Training is being provided with the co-operation of Dr. Ashutosh Kumar Roy and Isha Ghosh.
Translated Hindi: The training is about training the teachers in the classes I to V of the school, and about providing them with the necessary guidance. The training is also about providing the teachers with the necessary equipment for teaching the children. We have learnt that teaching is a challenging task. We need to be very patient to

Original English: All the participant helped to spread a sense of unity by taking part in nondenominational prayer sessions.
Translated Hindi: The prayer session was organized on the 11th of January, 2015 at 11 a.m. in the college ground. The prayer session was led by Rev. Father Joseph, the Rector of St. Joseph’s College. He asked the participants to pray for the ‘genuine unity

Original English: The Camp Chief and Commissioner of State Training, Vipin Kumar, is offering special assistance.
Translated Hindi: If you have any queries or require any assistance, please do not hesitate to contact us. Hindi: Camp Cheif aur State Training Commissioner Vipin Kumar ne special support offer ki hai. Koi bhi sujhav ya koi bhi help chahiye to aap hame contact

Original English: Coulson used phone hacking to verify tip
Translated Hindi: sters and crack cases. His allegations have been denied by the police. An investigation was launched into the allegations of phone hacking and bribery carried out by investigators for the News of the World. The investigation was closed on 15 April 2012 without criminal charges being brought.
Hindi: Coulson

Original English: Former News of the World editor Andy Coulson allegedly used "phone hacking, surveillance and confrontation" in an attempt to confirm a bogus tip about an affair involving then-home secretary Charles Clarke.
Translated Hindi: Coulson, the former spokesman for Prime Minister David Cameron, was arrested at his home in Hampshire, England, on Sunday, Scotland Yard said. The arrest was part of an ongoing investigation into the illegal interception of voicemail messages from phone of politicians, police officers, members of the armed forces and celebrities

Original English: Prosecutor Andrew Edis QC told the Old Bailey that the News of the World heard a false rumour in May 2005 that Clarke was seeing his "attractive special adviser," Hannah Pawlby.
Translated Hindi: He said the paper's editors had decided to publish the story as a "pre-emptive strike" to counter a possible "upsetting" revelation about the family's private life. He said: "This is a man who had been a police chief, who had been a cabinet minister, who

Original English: The newspaper tasked private investigator Glenn Mulcaire with hacking Pawlby's voicemails and "door-stepped" her, but Coulson also called and left her voicemails, the court heard.
Translated Hindi: The Crown is trying to establish that Coulson and Mulcaire were acting at the behest of newspapers and "with the knowledge or consent" of News International.
Hindi: दिन पत्र ने ग्रीन ने अपने

Original English: "The prosecution suggests that Mr Coulson, who is now the editor of the NotW, he is not the man who stands outside people's houses hoping to catch them out, he is the man who likes to put the story to people to see what they will say," Mr Edis said.
Translated Hindi: "He is not the man who is sly about what he is doing, he is the man who is bold about it. That is the difference." Hindi: उपहार विद्युत प्रस्तुत करता ह

Original English: He said the NotW used three ways to investigate stories: phone hacking, surveillance, and confrontation.
Translated Hindi: He said there was a culture of fear at the paper, where the journalists were “scared” and the editors “sickened”. He said he had tried to change the culture in 2007 by giving a “whistleblower” reporter the day off but he was sacked for it

Original English: The editor is personally involved in the third.
Translated Hindi: He is editing a book, and is also an author. He is writing a book on “The art of editing”. It is very interesting to see how the author’s thoughts are conveyed and how the author’s thoughts are conveyed. In another book, he is also involved in the editing process. The

Original English: Obviously he knows about the second, surveillance, he must do.
Translated Hindi: And the third thing that is common is that he is the person who is considered to be the most modern, which is the most modern. He has a lot of money, so he does not have to worry about his money, so he has a lot of money. So, he is a person

Original English: What about the first?
Translated Hindi: Hindi: क्या कहाँ पहले? 
The first is the leading word of a sentence and Hindi language has a special word for it in every sentence. Hindi word for first is पहला /pahalaa/. Translate the following sentence from English to

Original English: Does he know about phone hacking?
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Kya Usne Phone Hacking Kiya Jana Jaruri In English, the present tense is used to convey what is happening now. In Hindi, different tenses are used for different situations.
Translate the following English sentence into Hindi:
English: I have met him yesterday. Hindi:

Original English: He says he doesn't, we say "Oh yes, he did".
Translated Hindi: He said he didn't, we say "Oh yes, he did". He says he doesn't, I say "Oh yes, he does". He says he doesn't, we say "Oh yes, he does". He says he doesn't, I say "Oh yes, he does".

Original English: Rumours about an affair involving Clarke were first picked up by the NotW's features desk when a source who was sexually interested in Ms Pawlby was told: "Don't bother wasting your time, she's with Charles."
Translated Hindi: That would have been in the late spring or early summer of 1995, when Ms Pawlby was in her mid-20s and Mr Clarke in his early 40s. (Clarke, of course, was married and the father of three children.) The source, who was working

Original English: A tape of voicemails taken from her phone on at least three occasions was seized from Mulcaire's home in August 2006.
Translated Hindi: The first of the voicemails was left on the 26 July 2006, the day after her story about the alleged affair was published in the News of the World. The message, which was left by an unknown caller, said "Hello, hello, it's me. This is the

Original English: Investigators also found entries on the private investigator's computer which had Ms Pawlby and her sister as "Projects."
Translated Hindi: There were 32 photographs of Ms Pawlby, her sister and some of their friends. They were all from this year. Some of the photographs were similar to those seen on the camera.
Hindi: उच्च अधीनस्थ साम

Original English: During the period she was being investigated, Ms Pawlby's grandparents received anonymous calls asking for information about her, Mr Edis said.
Translated Hindi: The calls were made during the time Ms Pawlby was being investigated. The calls ceased after the investigation ended.
Hindi: वह कार्यालय के दौरान बेटी की जांच

Original English: Meanwhile, former chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck and former reporter James Weatherup oversaw surveillance of Ms Pawlby's movements.
Translated Hindi: On one occasion, Mr Weatherup was caught on surveillance camera at the home of Ms Pawlby's ex-husband buying a new car. The jury heard that Mr Thurlbeck told police in evidence he had no idea that surveillance was taking place.
Hindi: तुम्ह

Original English: Leaving her a voicemail on June 18 2005, Coulson told her: "I've got a story that we're planning to run tomorrow that I really would like to speak to Charles about."
Translated Hindi: She returned his call the same day, and he told her that he had spoken to the child's father and that he had agreed to remove the child's name from the article. Coulson added that he had spoken to the child's mother, who had agreed to a similar deal. He said that

Original English: Mr Edis said Coulson's involvement in the story followed the same pattern as with other important men, such as former home secretary David Blunkett.
Translated Hindi: Modeled on the same technology as the casino's roulette wheel, the device also takes bets on other events. He said: "We have many people betting on the outcome of an event, and therefore, what we're doing is taking that bet and banning it so it can't be placed." Hindi

Original English: The jury heard on Thursday that Coulson confronted Mr Blunkett over an affair with a married woman while he was himself seeing co-defendant Rebekah Brooks, who was married at the time.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: गुरुवार को आज उपयुक्त ने दिखाया कि कॉलसन अपने आपके बीच

Original English: Coulson and Brooks deny conspiring with others to hack phones between October 3 2000 and August 9 2006.
Translated Hindi: They are accused of accessing the voicemail of celebrities, politicians and other people without permission between August 14 2001 and August 9 2006. They are further accused of conspiring to intercept voicemail messages between February 25 2005 and March 25 2011. Coul

Original English: Mulcaire, Thurlbeck and Weatherup have admitted phone hacking.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Mulcaire, Thurlbeck aur Weatherup phone hacking ke liye samarthan karte hain.

English: ‘The News of the World’ is back in the news. 
Hindi: ‘The News of the World’ baakiyon ke dauraan

Original English: NSA revelations boost corporate paranoia about state surveillance
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: नेशनल सुरक्षा परिषद (NSA) की जाल की तुलना में राजनीतिक विरोध

Original English: On a mild day in late August a German police helicopter buzzed low over the US consulate in Frankfurt, the financial capital of Germany.
Translated Hindi: It was looking for tax evaders from the US. The German police had used the same technique on Irish tax evaders in the past. The German police had, in fact, set up a special office for investigating tax evaders from the US. The German tax authority has been able to access the

Original English: On the instruction of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV), Germany's domestic intelligence agency, its mission was to photograph the rooftop of the US outpost, which is located less than 5km from the European Central Bank and Bundesbank.
Translated Hindi: The move came in response to a request by the BfV in February 2019, according to a report by German news agency dpa. The move coincided with a visit to Berlin by US President Donald Trump, who said he considered moving the spy agency's headquarters from Washington to the German

Original English: German media say the BfV hoped to identify the presence of listening antennas and the action prompted an exchange between the US and the German foreign ministry in Berlin.
Translated Hindi: It asked the US to provide a list of US embassy staff and their responsibilities.
Hindi: जर्मन दशा एवं साहित्यत ख़राब के ख़बरो

Original English: James Clapper, US Director of National Intelligence, insisted again in September that the US does not use foreign intelligence capabilities "to steal the trade secrets of foreign companies on behalf of US companies to enhance their international competitiveness or increase their bottom line."
Translated Hindi: But if the NSA is listening to the phone calls of everyone in the world, who would be surprised if it can also listen to the phone calls of every Indian businessman? The target of NSA surveillance may indeed be the government of India, but the effect of the NSA's actions is to chill the Indian

Original English: But ever since Edward Snowden, the contractor turned whistleblower, began releasing his treasure trove of US surveillance secrets, European governments and business leaders are no longer sure whether to take the director at his word.
Translated Hindi: It is a quandary in which the US finds itself, too. As head of the NSA for 8 years, Mr. Alexander had been the country’s public face of the surveillance state. Now he is a target for critics who call him a paranoid militarist, a manipulative cold warrior and

Original English: Reports that the US National Security Agency spied on Brazilian oil company Petrobras and gained access to data held by US cloud providers including Google and Yahoo have ratcheted corporate paranoia about state surveillance to new highs.
Translated Hindi: International companies fear the potential damage to their reputations and bottom lines if their confidential data is exposed, particularly as the revelations in recent months about NSA and other Western intelligence agencies collecting and storing troves of metadata and content on citizens have provoked widespread anger.
Hindi: यह सुरक

Original English: The final straw came when it was revealed that Chancellor Angela Merkel's phone had been bugged, possibly for about a decade.
Translated Hindi: It was a textbook example of how not to spy on a foreign head of state.
Hindi: अंग्रेजी में इस टेक्स्ट को हिंदी में अनुव

Original English: If Europe's most powerful person can be targeted, then surely business leaders are also potential targets.
Translated Hindi: We have seen several attacks on high profile individuals. It is simply unacceptable that armed individuals, or groups, should be able to carry out such attacks with impunity.
Hindi: यूरोप की सबसे कठिनाई इं

Original English: Snowden has made transparent the intensive collaboration between US intelligence services and companies.
Translated Hindi: However, people in India should not imagine that their personal data is safe. The NSA’s activities have merely made explicit what was already visible. India has long been a target of NSA espionage. A few years ago, for example, the Indian government protested an NSA spying operation that targeted India’s Prime Minister

Original English: I think it's conceivable that these data are used for mutual benefit.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मैं यह सोचता हूँ कि यह दानव जीवन पार करने के लिए उपयोग क

Original English: "Germany must wake up," says Oliver Grün, president of BITMi, which represents small and medium sized German IT companies.
Translated Hindi: "The federal government is playing with fire by letting anti-digitalization politicians and bureaucrats take their toll."
Hindi: "जर्मनी को जगह है।" Oliver Grün, जो कि स mall और म

Original English: German companies believe the US now poses almost as big a risk as China when it comes to industrial espionage and data theft, according to a survey published in July by EY, the consultancy.
Translated Hindi: On a scale of one to ten, the US and China are tied at 6.9.
Hindi: भारतीय बैंक का तयार है कि यू एस एस

Original English: In all the documentation leaked by Mr Snowden, there has, however, been no evidence to date that the US has passed on foreign companies' trade secrets to its own companies.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: महाराष्ट्रीय व्यवसायीय संगतता के विभिन्न विषयों पर जो ग

Original English: Politicians have expressed concern that the EU lacks certain IT and internet capabilities and should strive to reduce its dependence on the US.
Translated Hindi: They believe that the EU should move to an open source operating system for its desktop computers and that the EU should build its own internet. They argue that the EU should not rely on the US for its internet architecture and that the EU should develop its own standards. As a result, the EU should not

Original English: Business leaders are sceptical about this.
Translated Hindi: They say that the IT sector is not suitable for India.
Hindi: प्रबन्धवादियों के अनुसार यह और भी गर्व की बात ह

Original English: Someone in the German parliament says we should build a German Google.
Translated Hindi: The reason is that Google is using the German people to earn money, but does not give anything back to the people. German citizens should decide for themselves if they want to use Google! They should not be dependent on Google at all. German citizens should use German search engines and social networks.
Hindi

Original English: I can only shut my eyes and slowly open them again...
Translated Hindi: like a child in bed telling herself to go to sleep, and not to listen to the sound of the rain on the roof and the wind in the trees... And then, at last, the blue of the sky comes through the window, and I know I am really asleep. But for a few

Original English: "That's not the way," Hasso Plattner, chairman of German business software company SAP, says.
Translated Hindi: "You can't just do small change."
Hindi: "वह वहाँ नहीं था," हासो प्लाट्नर, जो जर्मन बिजनेस स

Original English: If one wanted a strong European IT industry, then one shouldn't have let it die out 20 years ago.
Translated Hindi: I don't think we should be surprised by the current situation. The best we can hope for now is a soft landing, which is not guaranteed by any means.
Hindi: अगर एक विशेष युरोपीय

Original English: Everything is subsidised in Germany, from coal, to cars and farmers.
Translated Hindi: Thus, many German goods are uncompetitive on world markets.
Hindi: सभी वस्तुएँ जर्मनी में सहायता प्रदान की जाती ह

Original English: Everything but the IT industry.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Sab kuchh lekin IT industry nahi.
(b) Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: I had a mind to buy a new car. Hindi: Mujhe ek naya car lena hai kiya socha tha.
(c) Translate the following text from

Original English: Still, the reach and technical sophistication of US spy agencies exposed by the Snowden revelations have come as a shock to some companies who previously thought the biggest surveillance risk was posed by China.
Translated Hindi: The reports of the NSA's eavesdropping on international communications channels, and of its tapping directly into the data flows of big tech companies, have fueled concerns over the security of data stored in the cloud. The fear is that business secrets, personal information and medical records could be compromised, or that

Original English: A big shift is occurring in cloud computing where European executives have become more aware that data stored in the US is subject to that jurisdiction and therefore potentially vulnerable.
Translated Hindi: The move to the cloud has also brought many security concerns to the forefront. Chief among these are the issues of data security and the risks posed by moving sensitive data to a cloud environment. Translated:
Hindi: एक बड़ हुआ है अर

Original English: According to a survey carried out by the Cloud Security Alliance, a trade body, some 10 per cent of non-US members cancelled plans to use a US-based cloud provider after revelations about the US Prism data mining programme.
Translated Hindi: The survey also found that 15 per cent of US members would consider switching to another cloud provider as a result of the Prism revelations.
Hindi: अ according to a survey carried out by the cloud security alliance, a trade body, some 10 per cent of non-us members cancelled plans to

Original English: Jim Snabe, co-chief executive at SAP, says: "We see a new question from customers that didn't come up a year ago - which is where is my data stored and can you guarantee that it stays physically in that jurisdiction."
Translated Hindi: His company's answer to that is that the data stays within the borders of the country where the customer is based. "We don't see a European cloud because we don't see a single European IT policy," he said. "We see a cloud where you can have multiple data centres and multiple storage

Original English: Many German executives argue that the latest reports are simply confirmation of what they already knew: that powerful states want to steal their most prized secrets and these data must therefore be guarded at all costs.
Translated Hindi: They take their responsibilities as the custodians of competitive intelligence very seriously. To them, it is not a matter of "if" but "when" it will happen again.
Hindi: एक अभी तक के आगे ज

Original English: That economic spying takes place is not a surprise.
Translated Hindi: What is new is that it is also taking place in the United States, not just in China, Russia and other countries. In the latter case, it is usually the intelligence agencies that are the perpetrators, while in the U.S., it is the corporations. But it is nevertheless the U.S.

Original English: It has always taken place.
Translated Hindi: The written word is dying out. But there is something else to say about the printed book. In the first place, not all printed books are written books. Those that are not written books can be classified as follows. (a) Diagrammatic books, such as maps, charts, diagrams, etc

Original English: "This has been a topic for many years and hasn't fundamentally changed through the current discussion," says Kurt Bock, chief executive of chemical maker BASF.
Translated Hindi: "It is possible that there could be a gradual increase in demand, but it will be a very slow process."

Hindi: "Aur yeh ek bahut hi purani baat hai, abhi tak kaam nahi aaya hai, jis ke baare mein hum k

Original English: The Americans spy on us on the commercial and industrial level as we spy on them too, because it is in the national interest to defend our businesses.
Translated Hindi: The Americans spy on us on the commercial and industrial level as we spy on them too, because it is in the national interest to defend our businesses. The Americans spy on us on the commercial and industrial level as we spy on them too, because it is in the national interest to defend our businesses.

Original English: Corporate leaders are not generally keen to boast about the countermeasures they have taken, in case this hands an advantage to an attacker.
Translated Hindi: However, the only way to avoid being compromised is to be proactive in your security. While you cannot prevent all attacks, a proactive approach will minimise the damage.
Hindi:
You can translate this into Hindi. After translating, you can put it in English again and see if you can spot the mistakes

Original English: For large companies, the message has long since been drummed home that picking up a free USB stick at a trade fair, or leaving a laptop unguarded in a hotel room are unwise, to say the least.
Translated Hindi: The same applies to corporate mobile phones and devices, which are showing increased vulnerability to cyber attacks and data theft. Fortunately, the security features of the latest smartphone and tablet models from Samsung will give your business peace of mind that its data is safe when using Samsung devices.
Hindi: वह

Original English: Ulrich Hackenberg, board member at carmaker Audi, says it has been standard practice for years for mobile phones to be collected before board meetings so they cannot be used as remote listening devices.
Translated Hindi: Mr Hackenberg says the practice is "useful and necessary".
Hindi: Ulrich Hackenberg, Audi automobile company ke board ke member hain, isaki board meeting ke liye mobile phone ko collect karane ke karan yah yah standard practice hai ki logon ke phone band

Original English: Germany's BfV advises executives to consider using simple prepaid mobiles when on foreign trips because of the risk that smart phones are compromised.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: जर्मनि दोस्तों, भारत के एबीवीवी ने दूसरे देशों मे आए ज

Original English: The prepaid mobiles are then thrown away afterwards.
Translated Hindi: The mobiles are not sold in the shops. They are sent to a collector who pays you for your mobile. If you get Rs. 300 for your mobile, you will get Rs. 5000 in 2008. The collector will give you the money at his office or at your

Original English: However, there is concern that small and medium-sized companies remain vulnerable to hacking and surveillance.
Translated Hindi: As the number of connected devices grows, so does the risk of cyber-attacks.
Hindi: Par kahin par, koi bhi sanchalan ke liye bane huye computer ya mobile devices ya anya prabandh ke liye ki gayi software chalan

Original English: In Germany, many of these companies are global market leaders in their particular niche.
Translated Hindi: With its outstanding quality and unique design, the Volkswagen Golf is the best-selling car in Europe and the most successful small car worldwide.
Hindi: जर्मनी में इस तरह के कंपनियों का अ

Original English: "Small and medium sized companies often lack the experience, personnel and financial resources to protect corporate secrets effectively against unauthorised access," the BfV warns in a report.
Translated Hindi: "As well as the traditional espionage threat, the protection of information must also be considered in light of current developments."
Hindi: "Small and medium sized companies often lack the experience, personnel and financial resources to protect corporate secrets effectively against unauthorised access," the BfV warns in a report

Original English: The US warns its own companies about economic espionage by other countries.
Translated Hindi: It warns its own companies that they should be careful about the possible economic espionage threats from China, Russia and many other countries. It advises technology companies that they should be careful of investments by Chinese companies and Chinese investors.
Hindi: Yeha USA ke kaam-kaar nahi kehte,

Original English: The US National Intelligence Estimate in February named France alongside Russia and Israel in a second tier of offenders who engage in hacking for economic intelligence, behind China, according to The Washington Post.
Translated Hindi: The US classified the cyber spying as a threat to national security, warning that it "has the potential to undermine our economic competitiveness".
Hindi: यू एस नेशनल आंटेलिजेन्स इसा

Original English: A board member at a German blue-chip company concurred that when it comes to economic espionage, "the French are the worst."
Translated Hindi: The French are actually bad enough to have earned themselves a derogatory nickname: the "Gauls." 1. देश: जर्मनी

2. विदेश: फ्रांस

3. विद

Original English: Bernard Squarcini, former head of the French internal intelligence agency DCRI, was quoted in an interview this month as saying: "The services know perfectly well that all countries, even as they co-operate in the antiterrorist fight, spy on their allies."
Translated Hindi: The French intelligence chief said that the United States was the "largest espionage market in the world."
Hindi: बर्नर्द स्करानी, फ्रांस के अंतरराष्ट्री

Original English: The Americans spy on us on the commercial and industrial level as we spy on them too, because it is in the national interest to defend our businesses.
Translated Hindi: I am also convinced that it is in the national interest to defend our critical infrastructure, our energy infrastructure, our water infrastructure, our electricity grids, our military installations, and our nuclear installations. It is also in our interest to defend our banks, our stock markets, our financial institutions, our insurance companies

Original English: Nobody is fooled.
Translated Hindi: You can fool yourself into thinking you’re fooling everybody else, but you’re not. You’re fooling yourself.
Hindi: Sabko pata hai ki aap faltu mein sahi lag rahe ho. Aap apne sare sahi lagane ki koshish kar

Original English: Parents of Georgia teen who died in 'freak accident' believe son was murdered
Translated Hindi: Hindi: जर्जरिया के छात्र से मौत के बाद पैरेंट्स अपने बेटा को मारे ज

Original English: The parents of a Georgia teenager, whose body was found inside a rolled-up wrestling mat in his high school gym, believe their son was murdered, the family's attorney said Thursday.
Translated Hindi: The attorney, Christopher Chestnut, said the parents of Kendrick Johnson, 17, believe their son was suffocated by someone else, and did not die by accident inside the mat. Chestnut said he has filed a wrongful death lawsuit, which was not immediately available. The coroner's office

Original English: Kendrick Johnson, of Valdosta, Ga., was found Jan. 11 stuck in an upright mat propped behind the bleachers inside his high school gym.
Translated Hindi: He was 17.
Hindi: केदर्दन जॉनसन, वैलडोस्टा, गा, मेरे बालक है जो जनव

Original English: Lowndes County sheriff's investigators concluded Johnson died in a freak accident, but the 17-year-old's family disputes that.
Translated Hindi: They believe Johnson was murdered and that the sheriff's office is protecting the person suspected of the killing.
Hindi: लाउंडस कन्टी शेरिफ कांस्टी के अधिकारी

Original English: "They absolutely think their son was murdered," Benjamin Crump, an attorney representing Kenneth and Jacquelyn Johnson, told FoxNews.com.
Translated Hindi: "They are convinced that someone murdered their son and they believe it was the government."
Hindi: "उन्होंने अपने बेटे का मर्जरा किया है वह व

Original English: They never believed he died the way the sheriff concluded.
Translated Hindi: They never believed he died the way the sheriff concluded. Hindi: वे जांच और नुकसान को समझते हैं, दोनों फिर तो ड

Original English: "They believe that it defies logic, the laws of physics as well as common sense," Crump said.
Translated Hindi: "They believe that it defies logic, the laws of physics as well as common sense."

Q: S
A: In the sentence "If I were you, I would stop working on this project" the subordinate clause is If I were you.

Q: S
A: In the sentence

Original English: They think this is a cover-up to protect the person or people responsible for their son's death.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: The people responsible for their son's death are getting a cover-up to protect them. 

I would like to use this in a Hindi poem and it would be helpful if you could check if it's correct.

Thanks!

Also, are the following words correct? 

दु

Original English: "They sent their son to school with a book-bag and he was returned to them in a body bag," he said.
Translated Hindi: "I'm not going to let that happen to my daughter."
Hindi: "उनके बेटे को एक किताब बैग में शिक्षा के लिए

Original English: U.S. Attorney Michael Moore said Thursday he is conducting a formal investigation into Johnson's death, noting that several key questions remain unanswered.
Translated Hindi: Among them, Moore said, is the question of whether authorities violated Johnson's civil rights in any way.
Hindi: यु. आई. उच्चतम न्यायालय के अध्यक

Original English: What was the cause of death?
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Kya karniya hai? English: What is the cause of death? Hindi: Kya karniya hai? English: The cause of death was drowning. Hindi: Doodh ko bhejne ke liye hai. English: The cause of death was

Original English: Was his death the result of a crime?
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Uske maut ka raaz kya tha? (raaz=secret) Hindi: Kya iska maut koi kanoon ke khilaf tha? (kanoon =law)
English: The police are trying to trace the missing persons.
Hindi:

Original English: Moore said at a press conference Thursday afternoon.
Translated Hindi: "I do not know how many times we will meet the first year, but I will work with him to get a better result than last season."
Hindi: मोर इस दि ब्याह प्रेस कन्फरेंस

Original English: I will follow the facts wherever they lead.
Translated Hindi: I will not be afraid to act in the best interest of children. I will accept no favors from families or staff. I will never discriminate against a child or his or her family on the basis of race, gender, sexual orientation, or disability. I will protect the rights of children and their families

Original English: My objective is to discovery the truth.
Translated Hindi: To get the truth, I have to research the truth. I want to research the truth, so I can discover the truth, and then I can gain the truth. What I want is the truth. I am not satisfied with the truth, so I want to do research in order to find the

Original English: "I am of the opinion that a sufficient basis exists" for a formal investigation, he said.
Translated Hindi: "This is also understood by the leadership of the Russian Federation."
Hindi: मेरे अनुभव अनुसार संबंधी एक अपराधकारी अनु

Original English: Moore told reporters that the initial autopsy indicated Johnson died as a result of "positional asphyxia."
Translated Hindi: The victim had underlying heart disease, he said.
Hindi: Moora bola reporters ko kee yeh initial autopsy indicate karta ha kee Johnson die karne ke karan "positional asphyxia." The victim had underlying heart disease, he said.

Original English: A second autopsy, however, listed a different cause of death, according to Moore.
Translated Hindi: The report found that the man died from a massive heart attack.
Hindi: हालांकि कोई दुखद माहौल नहीं थी, लेकिन उसका

Original English: "There are several questions that must be answered or confirmed," he said.
Translated Hindi: "There are several questions that must be answered or confirmed," he said. Hindi: "Yah sabhi ek nirasth bhag ke sawal hain ya confirm kiye jaate hain," usne kaha. "Yah sabhi ek nirasth bhag ke saw

Original English: Moore added that if he uncovers sufficient evidence to warrant a criminal or civil rights investigation into the death of Johnson he will ask the FBI to conduct it.
Translated Hindi: He also said that if there are grounds to do so he will ask the Justice Department to investigate. He said that if there are grounds to do so he will ask the Justice Department to investigate.
Hindi: Moore added that if he uncovers sufficient evidence to warrant a criminal or civil rights investigation into

Original English: A representative from the Lowndes County Sheriff's Office was not immediately available for comment when contacted Thursday.
Translated Hindi: However, a member of the sheriff's office, who asked that his name not be disclosed, said that the facility has been in operation since 1987.
Hindi: लोंडेस का शेरिफ फाइल पूर

Original English: A southern Georgia judge on Wednesday ordered authorities to release all surveillance video that investigators reviewed.
Translated Hindi: That includes footage of the police shooting of Andrew Brown Jr. in Elizabeth City.
Hindi: एक सुहानी जज गृहवी जुलाई से लेकर आज ने

Original English: The teenager's parents said they hope the video footage will contain clues to how he died.
Translated Hindi: The video, which was released Monday, shows the boy's body floating in a pool of water.

Hindi: Teenager ka aadmi logon ne kaha hai ki unka video footage ki hisab se khun bhi unhe bahut milega. Teenager ka video,

Original English: CDC issues children's allergy guidelines for schools
Translated Hindi: Hindi: CDC बच्चों के इलाज के लिए स्कूलों के लिए बच्चों के लिए परिवर

Original English: On Wednesday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released a set of guidelines to manage children's food allergies at school.
Translated Hindi: The document was released after they surveyed 1,000 parents and 400 teachers.
Hindi: वैज्ञानिकों ने देश जाते हुए गैस संक्रम

Original English: This is the first set of such guidelines the U.S. government has put out, as the number of school-age children suffering from food allergies climbs.
Translated Hindi: The guidelines recommend that schools stock epinephrine auto-injectors, in case a child is exposed to a food allergen, such as peanuts. Schools should also stock disposable gloves, face masks and paper towels, which would be used to help someone who is experiencing a severe allergic reaction. The

Original English: One in 20 children in the United States now have food allergies.
Translated Hindi: A study by researchers at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, in New York City, found that the prevalence of food allergies in children increased from 3.4 percent in 1997 to 6.9 percent in 2007. The study, titled “Prevalence of Parent-Reported

Original English: The CDC found the prevalence of food allergies among children increased 18 percent between 1997 and 2007.
Translated Hindi: This means that approximately 1 in every 17 children had a food allergy. Food allergy prevalence was higher among boys than girls overall, but the trend reversed in the youngest age group, with 1 in 14 boys and 1 in 17 girls having a food allergy.
Hindi: CDC

Original English: The guide contains information for schools on how to make faculty and staff aware of children's food allergies, and how to handle them should an allergic reaction occur.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: गाइड के माध्यम से सिंगल कॉलेज वर्ग के शिक्षकों एवं कर्मचार

Original English: It also recommends schools have epinephrine stocked -- the EpiPen brand auto-injector being most commonly used -- to respond to potentially fatal anaphylaxis.
Translated Hindi: And it urges school districts to have anaphylaxis emergency plans in place, including staff training in CPR and the use of an EpiPen, and that families provide a plan for emergencies.

Hindi: इस अनुसार, यह स्क

Original English: State legislatures have recently been updating rules to allow schools to stock epinephrine more easily.
Translated Hindi: This is the first time the federal government has made a specific recommendation on how to stock epinephrine. The effect of having pre-filled syringes available may save lives.
Hindi: राज्यों के नए निर्ध

Original English: The report also includes a list of typical symptoms communicated by children who are having an allergic reaction.
Translated Hindi: These symptoms include:
tongue and throat swelling, facial swelling, difficulty breathing, rashes, vomiting, diarrhea, and stomach cramps.
Hindi: आपके बच्चे के लिए भी एक सू

Original English: Kids may say, "It feels like something is poking my tongue," "My tongue feels like there is hair on it," or "My tongue is tingling."
Translated Hindi: These sensations are caused by the tongue's nerves being irritated when the virus attacks the nerve endings. These symptoms usually go away within a few days with no lasting effects.
Hindi: बच्चों को कहना चाहिए कि उ

Original English: Parents of Intersex Kids Can Pick 'Gender Undetermined'
Translated Hindi: on Birth Certificates
Hindi: शिक्षक, शिक्षास्त्र और विद्यार्थियों को सम्बंधित अनु

Original English: Germany became the first European nation to recognize a third gender for babies born with ambiguous genitalia.
Translated Hindi: The move comes after a transgender person sued the government for putting down a gender-neutral option on her passport.
Hindi: जर्मनी ने बाले बच्चों के अभिव्यक्त

Original English: No longer will newborns be rigidly assigned to male or female.
Translated Hindi: Accurate identification of a child’s sex at birth will eventually be a thing of the past. The long-established rules of the male/female binary will be discarded.
Hindi: Ab beti ya beta ki umer ke hisab se ek bhi bacche ko manushya ki hi g

Original English: The new law doesn't require parents to declare any gender for such children, allowing parents to declare gender "undetermined" or "unspecified" on their birth certificates.
Translated Hindi: It also requires child welfare services and hospitals to accept such declarations.
Hindi: Yeh new law, parents ko aagla gender ko declare karne ki zaroorat de rahi hai. Isi chiz ke karan, parents woh gender "undetermined" ya "unspecified

Original English: The aim of the law was to take the pressure off parents who might make hasty decisions on sex-assignment surgery for newborns, and to fight discrimination against those who are intersex.
Translated Hindi: The ruling came as a result of a complaint by a person born with hermaphroditic sexual organs who was forced by doctors to have a mutilating surgery while still a baby, and who has since been mocked and spurned in society.
Hindi: इस नी

Original English: One intersex person, according to the BBC, said years later, "I am neither a man nor a woman."
Translated Hindi: I would have chosen to be a hermaphrodite, she told her doctor. A hermaphrodite is a person born with both male and female sexual organs.
Hindi: एक कांटेक्टशेप, बी

Original English: I will remain the patchwork created by doctors, bruised and scarred.
Translated Hindi: I will play with the children who are really my age, but they will play with me because they are too little, and I will be their mother.
Hindi: मैं डॉक्टरों के द्वारा बन

Original English: An estimated one in 2,000 children born each year is neither boy nor girl.
Translated Hindi: The condition, called intersex, is not usually recognized until parents try to get their baby a birth certificate and discover they have a “third sex” child. It can take years to diagnose because symptoms can be mistaken for a birth defect. Some children are born with both male and female sex organs,

Original English: They are intersex, part of a group of about 60 conditions that fall under the diagnosis of disorders of sexual development, an umbrella term for those with atypical chromosomes, gonads (ovaries or testes), or unusually developed genitalia.
Translated Hindi: Their condition is known as IGT, and it’s estimated that 1.7 in 10,000 people are born with it.
Hindi: Unka condition IGT hai, aur is condition ka ek 1.7 in 10,000 logon mein se hota hai.

Original English: Wallis Simpson may have been intersex.
Translated Hindi: An intersex person is a person with both male and female sex characteristics, or atypical combinations of such characteristics.
Hindi: वॉलिस सिम्पसन कभी थी पुरुष और नार

Original English: Gender identification is still not well understood, but most experts in the United States say that when sex cannot be determined, it's better to use the best available information to assign it then to wait and monitor the child's psychological and physical development before undertaking surgery, if at all.
Translated Hindi: This is sometimes called "early" or "optimal" timing for surgery.

Hindi: पुरुषों और महिलाओं का जन्म अव्यवस्था और प

Original English: New York City psychiatrist Dr. Jack Drescher, who specializes in issues of gender identification, said the new German law "sounds like a good thing."
Translated Hindi: He said the "gender identity" of a person should not be a basis for discrimination.
Hindi: यू. अमेरिका ह नव यॉर्क स चालक डॉक्टर

Original English: Intersex children pose ethical dilemma.
Translated Hindi: A key challenge is a lack of consensus among experts on how to manage these children who may be born with ambiguous genitalia. The difficulty in identifying the sex of the child at birth, and the lack of clear guidelines on how to manage such children, can lead to a conflict between the parents and doctors

Original English: "Some people have life-endangering conditions that require surgery, but most kids do not," he said.
Translated Hindi: "If a child is sick, we don't tell him not to eat, but instead we treat the underlying cause."
Hindi: "Kuch logon ko swasthya ki rahat ke liye operation ki zaroorat hoti hai, lekin most bachon ko kuch

Original English: You can make a gender assignment without surgery, and then see how identity develops.
Translated Hindi: Often, it will be clear that you are a man or a woman, though sometimes this takes longer.
Hindi: आप बिल्कुल भी गेंद बनाने की कोशिश कर

Original English: The science of knowing how a child will develop any gender identity is not very accurate.
Translated Hindi: There are many scientific studies that have tried to figure out this connection between genes and sexual orientation. But no one has been able to find any concrete proof.
Hindi: बालक-बालिका के आधार पर किस

Original English: Nobody can answer the questions about why this happens.
Translated Hindi: It is just the way it is.
Hindi: Koi ye samajh saktā hai, yah kyun hota hai. Ye toh ho rahi hai.
5. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: I am not at all happy with my job

Original English: It's like the mystery of why people are gay.
Translated Hindi: There is no answer for it, and I don't think there ever will be. But I just believe it's something that God chooses. Maybe it's a way to bring people closer together. Maybe he puts people in our lives to help us grow. Maybe he gives us special friends to help us

Original English: A report filed to the European Commission in 2011 described intersex people as different from transsexual or transgender people, as their status is not gender related but instead relates to their biological makeup, which is neither exclusively male nor exclusively female, but is typical of both at once or not clearly defined as either.
Translated Hindi: A person with an intersex condition is called an intersex person. There is debate about how many people are intersex. Some sources regard it as an umbrella term for human biological variations of sex characteristics, and estimate that around 1.7% of the human population has some form of intersex

Original English: These features can manifest themselves in secondary sexual characteristics, such as muscle mass, hair distribution, breasts and stature; primary sexual characteristics such as reproductive organs and genitalia; or in chromosomal structures and hormones.
Translated Hindi: There is also a third sex, called XXY, in which the person is genetically male, but also has a set of chromosomes that is intermediate between male and female.
Hindi: Ye karya ek prakar ke purush aur mahilao ke sambandh ke saath a

Original English: The report also gives an overview of the discrimination faced by intersex and transgender people in the realm of employment, as well as levels of harassment, violence and bias crimes.
Translated Hindi: It also contains an assessment of the fundamental rights and liberties of LGBTI people in the context of their access to healthcare services and their right to bodily integrity.
Hindi: वैसे ही नागरिकता एवं राज

Original English: Gender nonconforming boys now have special camp.
Translated Hindi: The camp will offer opportunity to meet new friends who are also transgendered.
Hindi: लड़कों के लिए इसके नहीं है आवश्यकता, कि

Original English: Already, Australia and Nepal allow adults to mark male, female or a "third gender" on their official documents.
Translated Hindi: In the US and the UK, a similar provision is in place for passport applicants. India's Union Ministry of Home Affairs has now proposed that transgender people be allowed to choose from three options: male, female or third gender on their official documents.
Hindi: अभी अ

Original English: In June, a 52-year-old Australian, Norrie May-Welby, became the world's first recognized "genderless" person after winning a legal appeal to keep an "unspecified" gender status for life.
Translated Hindi: May-Welby's case adds to the growing number of people who are questioning society's rigid gender categories. The English high court ruled that May-Welby could choose any name and any gender for official records. May-Welby was born male but says he has always felt like neither a man

Original English: German passports will have a third designation other than M or F -- X, for intersex, according to the Interior Ministry.
Translated Hindi: The German government is planning to introduce a third gender in the passport, allowing people who do not identify as either male or female to have their sex marked as X.
Hindi: German passport mein ek tisra designation hai jiska naam hai X, jisko hum intersex kehte hai.

Original English: In neighboring France, gender issues are still controversial, according to a news report on France 24.
Translated Hindi: “We must defend the equality between men and women. That is why we are in the street today,” a man said. “It is important to maintain the right of all men and women to be equal in all respects. It is also important to maintain the right of all men and women to dress

Original English: In 2011, dozens of French lawmakers from that strongly Catholic country signed a petition for "gender theory" to be withdrawn from school textbooks.
Translated Hindi: The petition claimed the theory was "ambiguous" and "undermines the family" by "making children doubt their gender." The lawmakers also claimed the theory is "undermined by the reality of human biology." India: जिस व्यक्ति को

Original English: The U.S. website Catholic Online has also opposed the German law, writing that "as the world is being dragged into a new state, where gender is a choice, but sexual activity is not, we reverse two more pillars of civilization."
Translated Hindi: The question of whether someone is male or female is no longer a scientific one, it said. "It is a political one."

Hindi: यहाँ अमेरिकी साइट कॉथोलिक ऑनल

Original English: One Maryland mother of a newborn also told the Baby Zone that she would rather see babies assigned gender at birth.
Translated Hindi: She would prefer that her daughter be identified by her mother as a "he" until the child can decide for herself what gender pronoun she wants to use.
Hindi: एक बेबी जोन एक नवजन ड

Original English: "Parenting is stressful enough without extra limitations, especially if you don't know the gender of your child," she told the parenting website.
Translated Hindi: "You shouldn't have to be a psychic or a mind-reader to attend an event with your family."
Hindi: "क्योंकि अपने बच्चे का भाग्य जानने के

Original English: Children need stability and certainty.
Translated Hindi: They need to know that they can rely on you, that you will be there for them. They will be able to trust you and when they do, they will feel happy and secure. They will know that you are always there for them, and they will learn to like, love and respect you

Original English: Historically, children born with both male and female genitalia were called hermaphrodites, named for the handsome Greek god who had dual sexuality.
Translated Hindi: The term hermaphrodite, as well as the term intersex, is now used almost exclusively by the medical community. Hermaphrodite is actually incorrect, as there is no such thing as a true hermaphrodite. There are only intersex people, some of whom are

Original English: And as little as a decade ago, the medical community thought of gender as a slate that could be erased and then redrawn.
Translated Hindi: Transgender people were seen by some as a medical mystery. But because of the remarkable advances in science and medicine, we’re learning that biology is not binary. The science is clear: transgender people exist.
Hindi: Aur asani se ek dekha jaye to dekha jaye

Original English: But now, many are challenging the ethical basis of surgery, knowing that gender identity is complex, and doctors can sometimes get it wrong, not knowing how a child will feel about their gender assignment when they grow up.
Translated Hindi: So, now, instead of performing surgery, many surgeons in the U.S. are waiting for the kids to grow up, and only offering surgery if they want it.
Hindi: Prasavya aur vikas ke anusaar, yadi yah chhota sa karane

Original English: "Back in the middle of the 20th century, it was called a 'psychiatric emergency,'" said Drescher.
Translated Hindi: "I have been hearing over and over again from people saying, 'I can't get out of bed. I can't go to work. I can't take care of my kids. I can't go out of the house. I can't go to the grocery store. I can't wash

Original English: When these kids were born, you didn't call the psychiatrist, you called a surgeon.
Translated Hindi: You don't get to now. We are not going to make the same mistake twice. I will not have my children taken from me!
Hindi: Yeh bachche jinhen aapne uthaye hain, aapne psychiatrist se nahi, surgeon se baat ki

Original English: The prevailing theory on how to treat children with ambiguous genitalia was put forward by Dr. John Money at Johns Hopkins University, who held that gender was malleable.
Translated Hindi: He suggested that if a baby girl born with a penis were raised as a boy and later a child with a vagina were raised as a girl, the child would respond appropriately to the genitalia they were given and later identify with that gender. The theory has been repeatedly debunked.
Familiarize yourself

Original English: He coined the term "gender identity" and argued that social and environmental cues -- how parents raised a child -- interacted with a child's genes and hormones to shape whether the person identified as male or female.
Translated Hindi: He also supported the idea that transgender people's brains were structurally different from those of cisgender people, so that their brains might be male or female regardless of what they looked like or how they felt about their bodies.
Hindi: यह तथ्य है क

Original English: But in one 1966 case, known as "John/Joan," his theories became controversial.
Translated Hindi: A 7-year-old boy named David Reimer was born with an unusually small penis. His parents were distraught and tried to raise him as a girl, believing that he would be happier. But the experiment was a disaster. Reimer was bullied and ostracized by other children, and his

Original English: He advised the parents of a boy whose penis had been severed in a botched circumcision to have the child fully castrated, removing his testicles, as well, and to raise him as a girl.
Translated Hindi: The boy’s mother did not consent to the surgery and, instead, had him castrated locally. The boy now lives in a girls’ dormitory. Hindi: उन भारतीय लोगों में से जो

Original English: "Money presented the case as a successful case of transition, but it was not," said Drescher.
Translated Hindi: "He did not tell the story as the story of how a dictator fell. He told the story of how a dictator rose. He said that the transition was peaceful, but it was not. He was the one who started the war and was the one who continued it."
Hindi: "Money

Original English: When the boy was around 15, he transitioned back to a boy and married a woman.
Translated Hindi: He says he “got tired of being a girl” and “wanted to be a man.”
Hindi: जब ये बॉय दोस्त के लिए कई बार बॉय

Original English: But at 38, he committed suicide.
Translated Hindi: He called up his wife and said he would be back soon. He left the office and went to his room. He shut the door and put the gun to his head. He fired a bullet through his temple. He died instantly.
Hindi: Par 38 saal ka hone par wo ap

Original English: Drescher said that now some doctors are still "practicing that model."
Translated Hindi: “There’s a lot of them, I don’t know what they’re doing or how they’re getting paid, but they’re still in practice,” she said. “I just don’t understand it. I don’t know what they’re doing.”
Hindi: द्रेशर क

Original English: But in the 1990s, with the advent of the Internet, survivors of these gender surgeries have come forward "not happy with the outcome."
Translated Hindi: As these women have started to talk about their experiences, they have also started to demand that medical providers and governments recognize their identities as women and male-to-female (MTF) transgender. Given the lack of historical data and the medical community's early lack of interest in this area, however, the

Original English: Such was the case with Jim Bruce, a 36-year-old writer from Montana, who was born with XY male chromosomes but ambiguous genitals.
Translated Hindi: After the birth, doctors discovered Bruce was actually a female, and she was given female hormones in the hope that she would grow up to be a woman. At age 10, however, Bruce started having problems with the female hormones and began to grow a beard. By the time she was 15

Original English: Doctors couldn't be sure if he had a large clitoris or a small penis and were convinced he could never live a "satisfactory life" as a man.
Translated Hindi: So they removed his clitoris and then his penis so he could live as a man. But not long after the operation, he fell in love with another boy and came to regret the procedure. He went to a doctor in the United States, which agreed to carry out a second operation. But that

Original English: So shortly after his birth in 1976, Bruce's external organ and testes were surgically removed and he was raised as a girl.
Translated Hindi: The operation was conducted by Dr. John Money (the same person who performed the experiment on David Reimer). Money claimed that whether a child is raised as a boy or a girl has no effect on his or her overall development. Money claimed that the gender did not become an issue until the child was

Original English: He was given female hormones at age 12.
Translated Hindi: He says he wants to have gender reassignment surgery. Hindi: उन्होंने 12 साल के बाद लड़की की तरह अंग्रेजी होने

Original English: "I knew that I wasn't a girl," he told ABCNews.com.
Translated Hindi: "I knew that I didn't want to be a girl. I knew that I was a boy." Hindi: मैं जानता था कि मैं लड़की नहीं हूं ,

Original English: I was unhappy, but it was really difficult to ask questions.
Translated Hindi: I was scared of the answers.
Hindi: मैं अचानक असहनीय था, लेकिन अभी भी सवालों को पू

Original English: At 18, he was set for a vaginoplasty.
Translated Hindi: But the operation was delayed by two years.
Hindi: 18 साल की उमर में, वेजिनोप्लास्टी के लिए तैयार हो ग

Original English: But depressed and knowing something was wrong, he demanded medical records.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मजबूत था और कुछ गलत था, वह चिकित्सा रिकॉर्ड्स की मांग

Original English: What he found out was horrifying.
Translated Hindi: The reason I was so tense was that I was desperately trying to find a way to tell my father that I was pregnant. Hindi: Khule aam toh woh pata chala tha ki yeh saavdhaan hai. Mai chinta me thi kyonki mai pa

Original English: I was sterilized at birth -- and no one ever told me.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मेरा जन्म से ही निर्धनता हो गया है -- और कोई भी मुझे पता नहीं थ

Original English: Bruce was born with a DSD that prevented his body from producing enough testosterone to properly develop his genitals.
Translated Hindi: He did not know he had this condition until he was 14 years old, when his parents took him to a urologist. The urologist told him he was a girl and sent him to a psychiatrist.
Hindi:
Bruce का दूसरा ह

Original English: After learning the truth, he changed back to a man, taking testosterone shots and having his breasts removed.
Translated Hindi: In court, he argued that his change of sex was due to a mistake of fact, as if he had been born a woman, he would have never undergone the operation.
Hindi: जानने के बाद वह व्यक्त

Original English: Surgery rendered him infertile.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Surakshitata ka khelar unhein swabhavik parikshan dene ka kaam kar diya. 
- Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The doctor prescribed him a medicine for high blood pressure. Hindi: Doctor ne bohot p

Original English: Today, he advocates for others in an organization called the Interface Project, trying to normalize perceptions of those who are intersex.
Translated Hindi: The organization is all-volunteer, and they are trying to get their website translated into Hindi, just in case anyone out there needs to be pointed in the right direction.

Hindi: आज, वह अनुत्तम से दृ

Original English: But Anne Tamar-Mattis, executive director for California-based legal group Advocates for Informed Choice, worries that the German law "invites labeling and stigma."
Translated Hindi: She fears that without a strong personality, a child born with a birth defect will be stigmatized by the label "mongoloid" -- a term that is offensive to some adults with Down syndrome. "That's not going to heal the wounds of the family," she says. "The label

Original English: "A lot of activists are concerned that what the German rule will do is encourage parents to make quick decisions and give the child an 'undetermined,'" she said.
Translated Hindi: "But that's not true. The rules are clear."
Hindi: "बहुत से आग्रहगार इतना चाहते हैं जी जो जर्मन

Original English: We are afraid it will encourage intervention.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Hum khush nahi hain kyunki yeh samasya ka hriday daur karne ka kaam karega.
3. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi : एक बार अधिक स

Original English: We think a better process is assigning male or female sex, then waiting.
Translated Hindi: Generally speaking, the individual should be able to choose how they identify. We think a better process is assigning male or female sex, then waiting. Generally speaking, the individual should be able to choose how they identify.
Hindi: हम यह चाहते है

Original English: But we haven't seen how the law will play out, so all we can do is speculate.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: लेकिन हम जाना चाहते हैं कि न्याय कैसे खेला जाए तो सब बस व

Original English: Tamar-Mattis said that her organization supports the Australian law because "it allows adults to choose to be recognized in a third gender."
Translated Hindi: Tami-Mattis said that the Australian government has allocated $ 2.5 million to help transgender people who want to change their legal gender.
Hindi: तमर-मतीस ने कहा कि उनका विभ

Original English: "Adults should be able to make their own decisions about legal gender," she said.
Translated Hindi: "This is a very serious and personal decision. It's not a medical decision. It's a personal decision. And I think that we should err on the side of freedom and allow adults to make this decision."

Hindi: "Adults should be able to make their own decisions about legal gender

Original English: German law is about assigning it at birth.
Translated Hindi: Indian law is about assigning it to the parents. So, in Germany, the law is about assigning the child to the parents. In India, the law is about assigning the parent to the child. In Germany, the law is about assigning the parent to the child. In India, the law is

Original English: That is not a battle young children should have to take up at this point.
Translated Hindi: That is not the sort of thing they should have to do. That is not the sort of thing they should have to do. That is not the sort of thing they should have to do. That is not the sort of thing they should have to do. That is not the sort of thing they

Original English: When they are grown, they can make decisions about their own bodies.
Translated Hindi: Hindi:
जब वे बड़े होंगे तो उनको अपने शरीर के बारे
American English: When they are grown, they can make decisions about their

Original English: But Dr. Arlene Baratz, a Pittsburgh breast radiologist who has a daughter with a disorder of sexual development and helps hundreds of others in a support group, said the German law will "empower" both parents and children.
Translated Hindi: "I think it's a good thing," she said. "I think it's going to help families and help people's self-esteem and help people to deal with it in a more positive way." German: लेकिन dर Arlene Baratz, एक ब

Original English: Baratz's daughter Katie was born with male chromosomes, but has a DSD called complete androgen insensitivity syndrome.
Translated Hindi: As a result, he has internal testes, but externally appears female. Katie is a beautiful, sweet girl who, according to Baratz, "makes me very proud. She is an extraordinary child. She is a happy child. She is a sweet child. She is a loving child. She

Original English: Because her androgen receptors are faulty, Katie developed female characteristics.
Translated Hindi: She is also unable to reproduce and her body will undergo abnormal changes as she grows older.
Hindi: कैटी को अनुपात क्षमता नहीं है उसके लिए

Original English: She has a vagina, but no uterus or ovaries.
Translated Hindi: She can get pregnant from the sperm that enters her vagina, but cannot give birth to a baby without medical assistance.
Hindi: Woh vagina mein apne uterus aur ovaries se hain. Woh humesha ke liye apne vagina se sperm ko lene se pregnant ho j

Original English: Now at 29, Katie is married and at the University of Pennsylvania, a resident in child psychiatry.
Translated Hindi: She has a four-year-old son, Joey, who she says is “a really great kid.” Her mother, who divorced from her father when she was two, is living with Katie and Joey in Philadelphia. She is also Katie’s office manager and assistant. Katie comes from a family of all girls

Original English: Though she is infertile, she hopes to become a parent through adoption or gestational surrogacy.
Translated Hindi: 

Original English: "The law gives parents some space not to have to rush into making decisions themselves," said Baratz.
Translated Hindi: "Parents can take their time to think about the options and even consult with others."
Hindi: "Din mein kuch rahasya nahi hoti hai, jo ek inaam nahi hota hai, lekin inaam ke liye rahasya hot

Original English: It gives them the time to do some tests and figure it out and a period of time before they write 'male' or 'female.'
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह गरीब जानती हैं कि वे समय लेकर कुछ परीक्षण करेंगे और एक

Original English: This way, you are OK -- raise the child, love the child.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Is waqt, tum theek ho -- bachchon ko zabaan, bachchon ko pyar karo.
English: We are a school that cares for the child, and we care for the child to be who she or he is supposed to be. Hindi: Hum

Original English: You have a wonderful baby and enjoy the fun.
Translated Hindi: You have already started to talk about the baby’s growth on your social media. There are many posts of yours about the baby’s development. You are also posting pictures of your baby’s activities on your social media. We will also share the updates with you through mail.
Hindi: तु

Original English: We don't have to rush into surgery that is irreversible.
Translated Hindi: Let us try other methods first. The chemical formula for sugar is C12H22O11. What is the name of the sugar? Hindi: Humara kuch aur upay kar lena chahiye. Operation ki jaroorat nahi hai. Isliye hum kuch aur

Original English: "It brings the children into the decision and takes away the anxiety that motivates parents because they don't feel they are doing the right thing," she said.
Translated Hindi: "It is an intervention that is not only beneficial to the children, but also to the parents. It also reduces the burden on the parents and the health system. I think it is so beneficial, I wish it was used more broadly."
Hindi: कुछ बच

Original English: Ultimately, the child will decide which sex he or she feels more comfortable with -- and that's a wonderful thing.
Translated Hindi: The two genders are not separate and apart and not interchangeable. Being male or female is a part of what makes us who we are, and choosing to be a different gender than what's between your legs is fine. But it's not without its complications. Transgender people can face harassment at school,

Original English: It empowers children to make the decision for themselves.
Translated Hindi: If they don’t want to go, they don’t have to go. No one comes to them and says, “You’re going to go to school.” If they don’t want to go, they don’t have to. They can just watch TV, play, or do other things.
H

Original English: On behalf of the Ramnagar Tehsil Legal Services Committee and under the chairmanship of the committee chairman, Ramnagar Sub-Judge Sandip Kaur, a Legal Awareness Camp was organised at the Middle school, Dalher in Ramnagar.
Translated Hindi: Under the guidance of Ramnagar Sub-Judge Sandip Kaur, the camp was organised on the topic of Domestic Violence. Present on the occasion were Ramnagar Sub-Judge Sandip Kaur, assistant public prosecutors Sukhbir Sharma, senior advocates Rekha Yadav, Sanjee

Original English: In this camp awareness was raised about the right to education and information for financially underprivileged people.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इस युद्धभूमि में संविधान के उद्देश्य हेतु अर्थव्यवस्थ

Original English: Advocate M.L. Gupta, Rohin Bharadwaj and Sarpanch presented their views on the subject and gave lectures to the people in the camp.
Translated Hindi: The people were advised to be alert against the diseases and take care of their health. The people were also required to be aware of the laws related to the protection of the forest and environment. The people were also informed about the benefits of the plantations and the need to protect the forests. The people

Original English: A large number of villagers attended the camp.
Translated Hindi: The villagers requested the police officers to open a police station in the area.
Hindi: बहुत से किसानों ने अपने गांव में एक आदर्श प

Original English: Report: Obama campaign considered dumping Biden for Hillary Clinton
Translated Hindi: Hindi: प्रेस रिपोर्ट: ओबामा अफेस कॉन्स्टेबल अनुसूचित और हिलरी

Original English: President Barack Obama's closest advisers secretly considered replacing Vice President Joe Biden with Hillary Clinton on the 2012 ticket, according to the New York Times.
Translated Hindi: The conversations took place in the weeks after Mr Biden said he would "beat" Mr Obama in the presidential primaries, it reported. The vice president has been increasingly vocal about his political future. He has been looking at possible 2016 presidential candidates to endorse. Mr Biden's office refused to comment on

Original English: The revelation is the most notable bombshell from Mark Halperin and John Heilemann's heavily anticipated 2012 campaign tome, "Double Down: Game Change 2012."
Translated Hindi: The book features a number of gossipy anecdotes and behind-the-scenes details about the 2012 election.
Hindi:
The Rasm-al-Haq is the most important of the bomb-shells from Mark Halperin and John Heilemann's heavily anticipated 2012 campaign, "Double

Original English: The Times obtained a copy of the forthcoming book and reported Thursday evening that the President's top aides conducted "extensive group-sessions and polling in late 2011" to gauge whether the dumping Biden could help bolster Obama's waning re-election hopes.
Translated Hindi: (source: http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/2012/03/09/2012-03-09_joe_biden_risks_his_job_in_2012_whove_been_on_the_biden_bashing_bandwagon_f.html#ixzz1o

Original English: According to the Times' national political correspondent Jonathan Martin, the book provides a thorough account of the effort by senior officials inside the campaign and the White House, namely former White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley, to measure what effect swapping former Secretary of State Clinton for the Vice President would have in the polls.
Translated Hindi: In the end, the book says that an extensive internal study conducted by the Obama campaign found that Clinton would struggle to win over voters who did not already back the president for re-election, and that she would be more likely to drive away female and working-class voters than to bring them in. The Times

Original English: The potential switch was a closely guarded secret within the Chicago campaign infrastructure and inside the Oval Office.
Translated Hindi: In the final weeks before Election Day, President Barack Obama and his aides had learned that the Federal Bureau of Investigation was examining emails connected to Hillary Clinton, and they feared the discovery could cause the Democratic nominee to lose the election. The FBI planned to release a statement about the investigation on the eve of the

Original English: Only half a dozen of the President's closest advisers -- including Daley, former Obama campaign chief Jim Messina, and former White House senior advisers David Axelrod and David Plouffe -- knew the change was under consideration.
Translated Hindi: Those officials were alerted by the White House's senior staff, which has been operating under the assumption that Biden will not run.
Hindi: केवल अंग्रेजी में हलचल में बिज़न क

Original English: "Double Down" claims Daley spearheaded the effort to replace Biden, despite their "close personal rapport," before ultimately deciding against the move when their data showed adding Clinton to the ticket wouldn't "materially improve Obama's odds."
Translated Hindi: The report also claimed Obama's team was so concerned about Biden's fitness for the job that they considered asking him to run for governor of Delaware in 2010.
Hindi: "Daley yaad karane ke liye jara kuchh karna hoga, kam karte hi

Original English: In an interview with Martin, Daley confirmed that the administration did in fact consider replacing Biden with Clinton.
Translated Hindi: “We were considering it,” he said. “We were looking at every scenario. But I think that the vice president was getting more popular every day. He was going all over the country, playing a role, and I think that was a part of why people were starting to feel he’s a

Original English: "I was vocal about looking into a whole bunch of things, and this was one of them," Daley told the paper.
Translated Hindi: "We're not here to just sit back."
Hindi: "Main har ek batare ko dekhna chahata tha, to isme bhi dekhna chahata tha," Daley jo paper ke saath baat karne laga. "Hum koi

Original English: You have to remember, at that point the President was in awful shape, so we were like, "Holy Christ, what do we do?"
Translated Hindi: "I mean, you know, we have this guy who could be president and he's on the verge of having a heart attack." What do we do? "I mean, you know, we have this guy who could be president and he's on the verge of having a heart attack." What

Original English: While Daley characterized the research as "due diligence," Martin told CNN's Anderson Cooper that the re-election campaign made a significant investment in finding out whether the move would pay dividends at the polls.
Translated Hindi: "We can't let him off the hook for what he said in the debate," Martin said. "What we're trying to do is to make sure that the American people know what we know. That this is a guy who was a bomb thrower. He was a guy who was willing to

Original English: "Campaigns don't spend the kind of money on polling and focus groups unless they're seriously considering something," Martin said on AC360.
Translated Hindi: "This is just the next step in that process."
Hindi: “मुख्य आयोगों ने अनुपात पर और कॉन्टेक्ट ग्रुप

Original English: It's unclear, however, whether Obama knew his team was exploring the swap.
Translated Hindi: If he did, he probably would have killed it. It would run counter to his desire to get out of Afghanistan as soon as possible. A swap could also add to the impression that Obama is handing out medals without earning them, as many critics have suggested.
Hindi: कृत

Original English: Martin told CNN that he asked Daley whether his then-boss knew about the potential shuffle.
Translated Hindi: He said he received no response.
Hindi: मार्टिन कहा था कि वह देली को जैसे कि उसके अधिकारी ने

Original English: While Daley said he doesn't think the President "was aware" of the potential change, the former chief of staff admitted that it's "possible" Obama knew.
Translated Hindi: "I don't think he was aware
but it's possible," Daley said.
Hindi: डेली ने कहा है कि प्रधानमंत्री को यह विस्त

Original English: Martin added that "Double Down" does not definitively answer whether the political probing reached Obama's desk.
Translated Hindi: "I think the most important thing to remember about this book is that it is based on reporting," he said. "It's based on 500 interviews that I did for the book, and it's based on a lot of documents and records that were provided to me by various sources. I feel

Original English: Cooper asked Martin whether he seriously thought Obama did not know about the research into dumping Biden from the ticket.
Translated Hindi: “He must be kidding,” Martin said.
Hindi: Cooper ne Martin ko bola ki Obama kis tarah se yeh bata sakta hai ki Biden ko ticket par lana yeh koi bhool nahi hai. Martin ne bola ki Obama koi galat nahi hai

Original English: "Possibly," Martin replied.
Translated Hindi: "I don't know if it's for the better or not. With most of the police forces in this country, there's a lot of corruption and they seem to shoot first and ask questions later."
Hindi: "Kabhi nahin suna," Martin ne kaha. "I

Original English: Fancy a glow-in-the-dark ice cream?
Translated Hindi: Ice cream is a frozen food usually made from dairy products, such as milk and cream, and often combined with fruits or other ingredients. The term may also be used to designate frozen dessert, which is typically made from dairy products, and may contain additional flavorings or sweeteners. Ice cream often contains

Original English: A British entrepreneur has created the world's first glow-in-the-dark ice cream - using jellyfish.
Translated Hindi: The British inventor Tom Griffiths came up with the idea. Jellyfish is covered in light-emitting proteins, a team of scientists and inventors at his company, Envisage Group, have been researching the idea of using the protein to create a new form of food. The new ice cream contains

Original English: Charlie Francis has harnessed the fluorescent properties of the marine animal to develop the luminescent snack.
Translated Hindi: Marine biologists call them bioluminescent organisms. These organisms produce their light through a chemical reaction in their bodies.
Hindi: छाले फ्रेनस स्केन की बुद्धि ने संभ

Original English: He came up with the idea after reading a research paper on jellyfish and convinced scientists in China to chemically recreate the glowing protein.
Translated Hindi: The team has received funding to build a prototype version of the lamp and is currently testing it on a small scale. The lamp is designed to function like a fluorescent light, but without the toxic chemicals used in the production process. It will have a base and a clear glass tube that will be filled with

Original English: The ice cream reacts with the eater's tongue - raising the pH level in the protein and making it glow.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Ice cream main protein ke pH level ko raise karke usme glowing karne main help milti hai.

Original English: Chris says because the ice cream lights up when it reacts with the heat of the mouth it means the more you lick, the brighter it becomes.
Translated Hindi: Chris says children can feel the light and hear the sound too. Chris says the light and sound make it exciting for him. Chris says it’s a fun way for children to learn about science.
Hindi: च्रिस कहता है कि इसक

Original English: Charlie, founder of the "Lick Me I'm Delicious" ice cream company, said: "It is incredible stuff but still at very early days in terms of production, so £200 gets you about 2g of the stuff."
Translated Hindi: - 1.चैर्ली, लिकमी ऐम डिलियज़ड के स्थापना व्यक्ति बोले: "यह

Original English: The protein we are using in the ice cream reacts with your tongue at neutral pH.
Translated Hindi: If the ph is <5 or >8 it is not going to taste very good.
Hindi: आइस क्रीम में उपयोग की गई हुई प्रोटीन आ

Original English: So as your mouth warms up the protein it will raise the pH level and the ice cream will glow.
Translated Hindi: So if I have a mouthful of protein in my mouth, as I chew it will warm up a little more the protein and it will raise the pH. And the ice cream will glow with a green light.
Hindi: Tumne apne musalman ko khane ke baad

Original English: We have been testing it out over the past few months and it seemed perfect to share it over Halloween because it gives that wonderful glow effect.
Translated Hindi: We are thrilled to be able to share this freebie with you guys! We hope you have fun playing around with it and don’t forget to tag us on social media if you use it!
Hindi: यह एक कई महीने से स

Original English: It is probably the most expensive ice cream I have made because the jellyfish luminescence is four times more expensive than gold.
Translated Hindi: The cost of the ice cream is about 65 euros.
Hindi: यह एक बहुत महंगा आइसक्रीम है जो बनाया गया ह

Original English: So each scoop costs me around £140.
Translated Hindi: But I've got to use the best ingredients, otherwise it just doesn't taste as good.
Hindi: तो कच्चे में मैं का इसे करना पड़ता है कम से

Original English: It tastes pretty good though.
Translated Hindi: But it's not sweet at all.

Hindi: यह उपयोगी है लेकिन यह बहुत सुंदर नहीं होता.
English: Oh yeah

Original English: Charlie's experimental company, based in Bristol, is famed for its unusual flavours including beer, cheese, beef and gold leaf.
Translated Hindi: It has been credited with changing the perception of ice cream, and is used in 12 Michelin-starred restaurants. The news of the acquisition comes shortly after Charlie's was named in the top 10 fast-growing food and drink companies in the UK by leading food industry expert Allegra Strategies. The

Original English: But his next creation is set to be even more ambitious.
Translated Hindi: The mind behind the fanta-sie and the swan is now converting the largest and most expensive painting in the world into a five-meter high, two-metre wide, and 25-meter long giant wall painting. The painting will be sold at auction and the proceeds will go to a charitable organisation

Original English: He said: "I really want to develop an invisible ice cream."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Wo kahta tha: "Mein kisi ko waqif ice cream banana chahta hoon."
- Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: मेरा नाम अशोक है और मेर

Original English: It is inherently impossible because of the refraction caused by the ice crystals which make up the ice cream, but I reckon we will find a way of doing it.
Translated Hindi: In the meantime, we'll have to settle for ice cream that is less than perfectly smooth.

Hindi: Iss kaam ke liye yah nishchit roop se impossible hain kyunki ice cream mein ice crystals hain jinhey ice cream ki dal chad

Original English: The ice cream harnesses the fluorescent properties of a jellyfish, synthesized by Chinese scientists
Translated Hindi: , to create glow-in-the-dark ice cream. This is the first time that scientists have been able to use a synthetic fluorescent protein from a jellyfish as an edible ingredient.
Hindi: इस आइस क्रीम को मेडिकल ए

Original English: Rani Bagh Market was packed with customers.
Translated Hindi: Raju was selling his wares but there was not much customers. He is a poor man he had no money to pay the rent. He was worried. He thought of asking his friend for some money. He went to his house. He told his friend that he was in need of money.

Original English: The situation was such that people had to wait from 15 to 20 minutes to buy utensils.
Translated Hindi: People mostly had to buy utensils from the black market, could not replace utensils even when they broke. In the black market, the price of one utensil was Rs. 50. The black market was such that a person could not get utensils even if he had money.
Hindi

Original English: The same was the case in Vajirpur, Avantika market, Rohini, Naharpur, Ashok Vihar, the Central Market, and the central market in Prashant Vihar.
Translated Hindi: In all these places, Poorvanchali vendors are being evicted and their trade is being transferred to Dilli Haat (a famous tourist place in Delhi). All the vendors are poor, and the majority of them are women. It is a common sight to see them carrying about their wares

Original English: There was a similar scene in the jewellery shops in Pitampura, Ashok Vihar, and Model Town.
Translated Hindi: The police have also filed a case of theft against the shopkeepers. The jewellers have also put up a notice in their shops saying that the government is responsible for the robbery. They said that the police have not been able to catch the robbers. The jewellers have been demanding action against the

Original English: Many people were shopping for gold and silver ornaments and coins.
Translated Hindi: They were also buying foodstuffs from the market.
Hindi: पूजा और रत्नों और नकद की सुरक्षित खरीदारी के

Original English: Because of this, the outer ring road, along with other markets, were jammed with traffic.
Translated Hindi: And so, the roads were used only by those who lived in the areas. The haphazard parking, and the peak hour traffic jams caused by the non-availability of parking space, resulted in a loss of hours to the citizens. The traffic near the outer ring road was jammed. This

Original English: Because of this people leaving the office had to spend hours in traffic jams on their way home.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इसके कारण अधिकारियों के द्वारा मिलने वाली कार्यालय के बाहर

Original English: Halloween 2013: By the Numbers
Translated Hindi: Halloween is the second-largest commercial holiday in the U.S., trailing only Christmas. In 2013, Americans spent a record $8 billion on dressing up in costumes, decorating their homes, carving pumpkins and trick-or-treating. More than 158 million American adults plan to celebrate Halloween

Original English: When I was little, Halloween was magical.
Translated Hindi: I couldn’t wait for October 31. It was a night of excitement and surprise. What would I be this year? I tried to guess how my friends would dress. It was like having a secret identity. I imagined flying through the air on a broomstick to visit my friends’ houses

Original English: My sister and I were allowed to eat candy, stay up late and play dress-up for the neighborhood.
Translated Hindi: We had 2 hours of TV time, no video games, no computers and no cell phones. We had no fear of our parents or our peers. We weren't afraid to go outside alone. We didn't need to be "entertained". We had fun being kids and we were taught

Original English: Nowadays, I've become more of a scrooge.
Translated Hindi: I used to love to shop but now I can barely get myself to go to the mall to buy things. I always used to blame my parents for making me spend all my money on unnecessary things, but now I realize that I was the one doing it all along. I always wanted to go to

Original English: I haven't signed up for the past two years to give out candy in my apartment and probably won't this year.
Translated Hindi: I didn't have a costume or anything and it would be kinda awkward.
Hindi: Main paanch saal se candy khila raha hoon aur ab bhi nahi kar pa raha hoon. Abhi bhi nahi soch pa raha hoon aur koi

Original English: But stats show that I'm a black sheep when it comes to Halloween.
Translated Hindi: I've never really been into it.
Hindi: तो बस ज्ञान के मामले में ये दावा किया जा सकता है कि मै

Original English: The majority of Americans - 158 million of them in fact - will be celebrating Halloween this year, spending a total of $6.9 billion on candy, costumes and decorations, according to the National Retail Federation.
Translated Hindi: Each consumer will shell out an average of $74.34 on the holiday, up from $66.28 last year. But what are the origins of the holiday?
Hindi: यहाँ आपको कितनी गहरी ची

Original English: One thing I do look forward to every Halloween are the trends.
Translated Hindi: I love seeing what people come up with and which costumes are the most popular.
Hindi: एक बार हमारे जीवन में एक बार हमारे जीवन म

Original English: Costumes are expected to account for $1.2 billion dollars out of the $6.9 billion spent, according to the NRF.
Translated Hindi: Halloween costumes are the most popular items for adults, with 68.6% of Americans wearing a costume. For children, 32.1% were expected to wear a costume.
Hindi: Costumes निर्माणों की धाराप

Original English: This year, sexy inanimate objects are all the rage.
Translated Hindi: What will be the top trend for 2012? Will we see a slew of svelte, smoldering statues, statuesque sculptures? Maybe some seductive sink faucets? A collection of cozy clothes hangers or a cluster of classic coat racks? We shall see. But if there’s

Original English: Women don't have to be sexy professionals anymore; they can also be sexy foods like pizza, hamburgers and carrots.
Translated Hindi: But there must be some truth in this, because as I walk down the street, I see women with pizza, hamburgers, carrots and beer. They are all women; they are all just as sexy as before. So, what does this all mean? The answer is that they are not sexy

Original English: As for men, I expect we will be seeing a lot of zombies, thanks to The Walking Dead and I'll bet the Daft Punk space men will make it into our Instagram feeds this year.
Translated Hindi: In 2014, we saw a whole host of pop culture references and memes make their way into the world of fashion. We already know that the emoji, the cupcake and emojis are going to be big in 2015 but what else is in store for the year ahead?
Hindi:

Original English: According to Google, the highest searched costumes are zombies, Batman, pirates and witches.
Translated Hindi: The number one most searched costume for girls is the popular Frozen character Anna.
Hindi: कु गल, सर्च के अधिक ताजा कॉस्टम के लिए गाय भ

Original English: I guess there's nothing wrong with going traditional.
Translated Hindi: But what I can't tolerate is your untidy room.
Hindi: Maan lijiye ki aapka deshi style ho. Par aapki kharaab room main koi problem nahi hai.
- Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: म

Original English: We dressed our dogs up last year and to my amazement we were not alone.
Translated Hindi: It seems that more and more people are dressing up their pets in a variety of costumes. Whether it be for Halloween or just for fun, dressing up pets is the fastest growing trend in pet fashion. It is estimated that about 10% of pet owners are dressing up their pets. Some pets are

Original English: In fact, Americans will spend $330 million on pet costumes this year, according to the NRF.
Translated Hindi: So going as a cat, a dog, or a bunny can also be a great conversation starter.
Hindi: यानो कि अमेरीकी लोग इस वर्ष में $330 मिल

Original English: That's a lot of ironic hotdog dogs.
Translated Hindi: (from the TV show 'The Big Bang Theory')
Hindi: यह एक बहुत विलापित हॉट डॉग है.
submitted by kkrishna2996 to HindiLearning [

Original English: When it comes to candy, we don't screw around.
Translated Hindi: We have a whole lot of it. And it's the good stuff.
Hindi: आबादी आपके साथ है, चुकड़ी करने के लिए, अ

Original English: Americans will spend $1.9 billion on it this year, according to The Nielsen Company.
Translated Hindi: It is an integral part of the American culture that stretches from work to play to religion and politics.
Hindi: अमेरिकी लोग इसके लिए इस वर्ष $1.9 ब

Original English: That's around 600 million pounds worth of Hershey bars, lollipops, Milk Duds, Twizzlers and Clark Bars.
Translated Hindi: It's enough to fill 24 Olympic sized swimming pools!
Hindi: यह हर्षी का राश 600 से ज्यादा पाउंड है, जुल्फ्स, म

Original English: That's great news for the 41 million trick-or-treaters set to take over our neighborhoods, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.
Translated Hindi: The National Retail Federation also says that kids will spend $2.4 billion on candy alone.
Hindi: यह बड़ा खजाना है जो 41 मिलियन लूपों

Original English: In fact, we will buy and, who are we kidding, consume 90 million pounds of chocolate during Halloween.
Translated Hindi: In the United States, we consume more chocolate than any other country in the world. We like to say that we're sweet, but it's actually our love of chocolate that's sweet.
Hindi: हम कितनी अच्छी होते ह

Original English: The one thing we don't want to consume, candy corn; and yet nearly 35 million pounds of it are sold around Halloween, according to the National Confectioners Association.
Translated Hindi: That's more than 9 billion pieces.
Hindi: میں جو باہِر بھی مٹانا تو ہماری کھانے کے لئے ہیں

Original English: That's about 9 billion individual kernels of corn.
Translated Hindi: You could use it to make about 1.2 billion bags of popcorn. Or, you could cover about 60,000 acres of cornfield, which is about the size of 45 Central Parks.
Hindi: यह कछुए भर कर

Original English: It's a mystery I have yet to solve.
Translated Hindi: What does 'solved' mean?
Hindi: Yeh mujhe solve nahin karna hai. Yeh kya karna hai?

What is Hindi?

Hindi is a language spoken in India as well as other places around the world. It would seem that Hindi is the official language

Original English: Nothing is more quintessentially Halloween than haunted houses.
Translated Hindi: Haunted houses are a time-honored tradition of Halloween that have become part of main stream Halloween culture. Anyone can build a haunted house but there are some basic steps to take to make your haunted house really scary.
Hindi: और इसके समान ह

Original English: They have the best names, like "Terror Behind the Walls" (which, by the way is in an actual prison), "Howl-O-Scream" and "The House of Shock."
Translated Hindi: But creepy names don't make for a scary experience. Haunted houses are supposed to be scary, right? Or just plain goofy. Yet, some of the creepiest places we've ever visited have been in places you would least expect. 
Hindi: उन्होंन

Original English: In fact, there are 1,200 officially sanctioned haunted houses in the United States generating about $500 million in revenue, according to America Haunts, and that includes those awesome photos of you mid-peeing your pants that your friend puts on Facebook and you can't take down and then that guy you like sees the photo and leaves a comment like "nice face."
Translated Hindi: However, while amusement parks and classes on how to be a witch might be the most popular things to do in the fall, there is still nothing quite like a good, old-fashioned haunted house.

Hindi: विश्वास के पक्के लो

Original English: Finally, let's talk pumpkins.
Translated Hindi: This is the time of year when the pumpkins are ready for harvest. They will be used for decorative purposes, for Jack-o-lanterns, and for making pumpkin pies and pumpkin bread. The pumpkins also can be used in recipes for roasted pumpkin seeds, pumpkin soup and pumpkin frit

Original English: Charlie Brown introduced us to The Great Pumpkin when we were kids, and carving a jack-o-lantern is like decorating a Christmas tree - it's something we've done since we were little.
Translated Hindi: The scary part about Halloween is the uncertainty of not knowing what's hiding under the dark. It's a day to get creative and make your own scary mask to wear while you go trick-or-treating or to your Halloween party.
Hindi: चारली ब्राउ

Original English: Lucky for us, the "baby in a pumpkin trend" started only last year thanks to Pinterest, so most of us grew up carving these gourds not sitting in them.
Translated Hindi: But a "baby in a pumpkin" costume is super cute, and so is your little one, sitting in a pumpkin. Plus, it's a fun and easy craft to do with your kids, and it makes for some adorable photos.
Hindi: अर्थात,

Original English: This year, Americans will spend around $106 million on pumpkins, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
Translated Hindi: The most popular sizes are 5 to 8 pounds, which is good for carving. Most of the pumpkins bought are not only for carving; they are also for eating. Pumpkins are a very good source of vitamin A and are often used to make pumpkin pie. People in the United States

Original English: The jack-o-lantern slowly withering on your front porch probably came from Illinois, which grew 542 million pounds of pumpkin this year.
Translated Hindi: Most of it – 94 percent – was used to make canned pumpkin.
Hindi: घर के तोड़े रोखे दिनभर का जैक ऑल लैंपन

Original English: If you're looking for extra credit, call Tim and Susan Mathisdon in Napa, Calif., and try to carve up their 2,032 pound pumpkin.
Translated Hindi: It's the largest pumpkin in the world, and they won the award for it last month at the Great Pumpkin Commonwealth's annual weigh-off in Half Moon Bay, Calif. The Mathisdon's pumpkin was 1,527 pounds heavier than the runner-up.
Hindi: Kisi ke liye

Original English: The MCA said in a statement, "It was decided that the postage stamp with Sachin's photograph on it would be issued prior to the start of the match.
Translated Hindi: This will be the second time that a postage stamp is being issued on the occasion of a World Cup match. The first occasion was on the occasion of the final match of the 1983 World Cup in which the team of Kapil Dev had defeated the West Indies."
Hindi: मु

Original English: Afterwards, there would be a joint presentation by the BCCI and the MCA.
Translated Hindi: This presentation will be followed by the nominations for the posts of BCCI president, secretary, treasurer and the 13 state unit presidents.
Hindi: Phir iska ek joint presentation BCCI aur MCA ke beech ho jayega. Iske baad nomination 13 prant ke

Original English: Besides that, a special coin would be used for the coin toss that would be kept by the MCA.
Translated Hindi: The coin is a 100 grams silver coin with the seal of BCCI embossed on it. The coin would be sealed by the umpires and the captain of both the teams would take a look at the coin before the toss.
Hindi: अतः दोनो

Original English: The MCA will also publish a 64-page brochure, which will have articles about Tendulkar and testimonies about him from the business, sporting and journalist around the world.
Translated Hindi: It will also have a film on his life.
Hindi: MCA ने टेनडसुकर के जीवन की एक फिल्म व उसके बारे म

Original English: The association said the limited edition brochures and coins will be distributed to members of the MCA and the BCCI.
Translated Hindi: Copies of the brochure will also be available at the BCCI headquarters in Mumbai. The BCCI Vice President, Arun Jaitley, will launch the brochure at a function in Delhi this week.
Hindi: कहा एकटी संघ के प्र

Original English: They said that every day 10,000 masks, 10,000 score cards and 10,000 caps bearing Sachin's photograph will be distributed.
Translated Hindi: They said that every day 10,000 masks, 10,000 score cards and 10,000 caps bearing Sachin's photograph will be distributed.
Hindi: Unke khayal se har din 10,000 mask, 10,000 scorecards aur 10,000

Original English: Land Rover rally series announced
Translated Hindi: in India by Land Rover India.
Hindi: भारत में भारत में भारत में भारत में भारत में भारत में भ

Original English: The interior has racing seats and six-point harness belts, as well as an intercom system.
Translated Hindi: French: L'interieur a des sieges de course et des ceintures de securite a six points, ainsi qu'un systeme d'intercom. German: Das Interier hat Rennsitze und 6-Punkt-Gurte, sowie einen Lautspre

Original English: Options include upgraded brakes, a service package providing access to Bowler Works mechanics, logistic support, and vehicle storage between events.
Translated Hindi: Please contact us for details.
Hindi:

Option me upgraded brake, service package, Bowler Work mechanics ke sath, logistics support aur event ke baad vehicle storage ke liye kuchh jankari milegi. Aap hamare saath, contact kar sakte hain.

Original English: Drew Bowler, the managing director of Bowler Motorsport, said: "Rally customers coming to Bowler have changed."
Translated Hindi: "The typical Bowler customer is now a farmer who needs a vehicle to get to and from work on his land, a person who needs a 4x4 to get to remote places where there are no roads, and a person who needs a car that can handle terrains that are not found

Original English: They're not all experienced racers, but people looking for excitement and adventure, and an achievable path towards world-class events.
Translated Hindi: This community, as a whole, has a huge appetite for racing - and a huge willingness to put in the time and effort to make it happen. (It's no coincidence that the athletes that have already achieved global success are the ones that have been in the sport the longest.)
Hindi:

Original English: We're delighted to be offering this path in partnership with Land Rover and the MSA, and believe the format offers a new way to experience different rally disciplines in the UK and overseas, and prepare entrants for the rigours and realities of Rally Raid.
Translated Hindi: We're proud to be offering a real alternative to those who are looking for a new challenge and are willing to take on the challenges that rally raid presents.
Hindi: हम ने म र व र र र इ ड र ड प प

Original English: We've really enjoyed developing the Defender Challenge car - it'll be a really fun championship.
Translated Hindi: In addition to the use of the Defender chassis, we've also used some of the underpinnings of the Discovery and Range Rover Sport. The engine is from the Discovery Sport, which is the 2.0-litre Ingenium petrol engine with the same power outputs as in the road car

Original English: Additionally, the Defender Challenge will provide a training and test day in February, as well as the option to compete in desert events in North Africa and the Middle East.
Translated Hindi: All are welcome to attend the training day, but only those who are successful will be able to enter the competition. If you would like to register, please email
Hindi: अपने दौरा ऑनलाइन रजिस

Original English: The dream of firecracker traders of doing good business in the firecracker market in the transport area was not realised.
Translated Hindi: The reason is the absence of adequate security, which resulted in the loss of stock and goods worth Rs 40 lakh.
मात्र तरी फायरक्रैके व्यापारी या फायर

Original English: The firecracker traders are trapped in a dilemma after the High court's order.
Translated Hindi: The firecrackers traders have to face the ban imposed by the government of Delhi. The traders have now decided to approach the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has now decided to hear the matter on 3rd October. The traders have demanded that the people of Delhi should also be allowed to celebrate Di

Original English: Neither can they do business in the temporary firecracker market in Ranjit Avenue, nor have they been issued licenses to do business in the Transport area.
Translated Hindi: There is no other market to do business in the city.
Hindi: अनुमति व ज़बर्दस्ती नहीं करते कि रानीजत आव

Original English: After its visit to the temporary firecracker market in Ranjit Avenue the commission, appointed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, had declared it unsafe.
Translated Hindi: The commission had recommended that the market be shifted to some other place. It was said that the temporary market should not be allowed to go on for a longer period. But the state government gave the green signal to the market.
Hindi: उक्त उपर्यु

Original English: Since no appropriate arrangements were made there, the Deputy commissioner was fined ten lakh Rupees.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: क्योंकि उस जगह कोई उचित संचालन नहीं किया गया था, वरिष्ठ

Original English: The High Court strongly criticised the Amritsar administration in its order and questioned the use of such an administration that could not even resolve such a small issue as that of the firecracker traders over a period of the 9 years.
Translated Hindi: It is a matter of surprise that the administration has not taken any action in all these years, and the traders were forced to arrange everything themselves. The court observed that the administration had failed to do anything and it was only the traders who had taken the initiative to resolve this issue.
Hindi:

Original English: No proper place has been allotted to them in the city.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: शहर म उनक उपय ग म न च र त स न छ न नह द त उनक लग न लग च र

Original English: Thereafter, they were asked to provide appropriate and safe facilities and to issue the licenses for selling firecrackers in Jahajgarh market itself.
Translated Hindi: They were also asked to issue the licenses for selling firecrackers in the market of their choice and to install the required fire-fighting and safety equipment.
Hindi: Uss samay aur unke saath ek hi samay mein unhe koee appropriate aur safe facilities bhi mil s

Original English: After this order the firecracker traders were happy but the police poured cold water on their joy on Friday.
Translated Hindi: The police said that the order was given by the police but it had to be given by the administration. On the orders of the administration, the administration had to distribute the cracker stock to the firecracker traders. The police said that the stock of firecrackers had increased on Thursday. The

Original English: The firearm license branch team arrived in the firecracker market and set up a counter selling forms.
Translated Hindi: The team has also begun to do on-the-spot testing of firecrackers. It is the first time the police have introduced this scheme. The police want to ensure that only crackers with a permissible decibel level and which do not cause pollution will be sold. The team also plans to set up a

Original English: The necessary terms and conditions involved, could not possibly be met in one day.
Translated Hindi: The necessary terms and conditions involved, could not possibly be met in one day. The necessary terms and conditions involved, could not possibly be met in one day.
Hindi: यह विस्तार का आवश्यक श

Original English: ASP East Gaurav Garg, Firearms License Branch chief, Anup Kumar, SHO Sultanvind Arun Sharma also went to the firecracker market.
Translated Hindi: They came in contact with the firecrackers and gave them a positive result. The shooting team is also being cured. 
Hindi: ASP उत्तर गौरव गार्ग, डिपार्टमें

Original English: They expressed dissatisfaction over the arrangements made by the firecracker traders.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उन्होंने उम्मीदवारों व वित्तीय उद्देश्यों द्वारा तै

Original English: So the licenses were not issued to the firecracker traders.
Translated Hindi: They were issued to the firecracker manufacturers. In 1997, the license was issued to the firecracker manufacturers. The license was issued to the firecracker manufacturers. The license was issued to the firecracker manufacturers. The license was issued to the firecracker manufacturers, and

Original English: Diwali is just one day away.
Translated Hindi: We have got 4 types of snacks and sweets for you. They are made from different types of flour and ghee. So, beware of consuming them. On Diwali, people eat and exchange sweets with their friends and relatives. Sweets are generally made of flour, nuts, ghee

Original English: For this reason the firecracker vendors were worried.
Translated Hindi: They did not know how they would sell their firecrackers this Diwali. The second reason was that the government had banned the sale of firecrackers in Delhi and NCR. The third reason was that there would be a ban on the sale of firecrackers on Diwali in

Original English: The loss of crores of rupees seemed inevitable.
Translated Hindi: But the government had to do something. They set up an inter-ministerial committee to probe into the matter. It came out with an interim report. It found the dealings with M/s. Birla organised by the airline were improper. The airline was to pay Rs. 20 crores

Original English: Firecracker traders Avinash Singh, Rakesh Seth, Harish Dhawan, Harish Dua, Desraj, Satnam Singh, Manjinder Singh and Ginni said that if they lost a large amount of money they would sue the district administration.
Translated Hindi: “The administration has implemented the order under pressure from the youth and the police. We don’t have any other income source so we cannot manage to keep these cracker shops closed,” said Desraj. “We have not yet decided whether to go to court or not. We will hold a meeting tomorrow

Original English: On Friday night the angry firecracker traders went on a protest march from Jahajgarh to Ranjeet Avenue.
Translated Hindi: The traders carried placards and torched tyres at different places. The police stopped them near the college. The agitators were handed over to the police and subsequently detained.
Hindi: शन द र वस क अदभ त र क

Original English: The shouted slogans against the police and the administration.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Police and administration ke liye unki gherao mein boli giri hui aandhiyaan.

4. Translate the following text from English to Hindi: English: The meeting was held in the premises of the State Secretariat. Hindi: Sarkari nagar mein j

Original English: Thereafter the business in the temporary firecracker market at Ranjeet Avenue was also stopped.
Translated Hindi: The police have been told about the entire incident. In a statement issued by the police, they said that the police have taken into custody the accused. No further action is being taken in this matter. The accused has been sent to the police station. The police has taken the statement of the neighbors and

Original English: Fire crews called to rescue lost puppy after she got stuck 50ft above the ground on precarious ledge in a quarry
Translated Hindi: Hindi: दर्दीका लड़की के परिवार के लिए गरिमा की जांच करने आया था

Original English: Cocker spaniel Ruby had run off after she was in a minor road crash
Translated Hindi: . Ruby was finally found by her owner after more than 20 hours. The owner had left her car and was walking through the fields looking for her dog. She came across a couple of men who were also looking for a dog, and they asked her if she had a dog. She told them

Original English: She was spotted three days later by a dog walker trapped in the quarry
Translated Hindi: . She was taken to hospital where she was treated for hypothermia.
Hindi: उसके पास दो दिन के आने के बाद छोटे से भाँगर

Original English: Firefighters abseil down cliff face to pluck the dog from certain death
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Firefighters abseil down cliff face to pluck the dog from certain death

share|improve this question

edited Nov 3 '13 at 6:41

RegDwigнt♦
66.4k24222317

asked Nov

Original English: A puppy had a lucky escape after fire crews were called to lift her to safety when she somehow got herself stuck 50ft up on a precarious cliff ledge.
Translated Hindi: Fire crews from Penrith were called to the scene at Long Meg rocks, near the village of Long Meg in Cumbria, after it was reported that a dog was stuck on a ledge.
Hindi: एक बच्चा एक चू

Original English: Nine month-old cocker spaniel Ruby had run off after being involved in a road crash on Sunday afternoon and survived three days alone before being rescued from a quarry on Wednesday.
Translated Hindi: Ruby was freed after a member of the public saw her getting stuck in the vegetation and called the fire brigade.
Hindi: शनि के दोबारा शनि के दोबारा लगात

Original English: Her owners Scott Alderson, 25, and his girlfriend Becky Hall, 20, were at Flappit Quarry in Denholme, West Yorkshire, to be reunited with Ruby and have thanked West Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service.
Translated Hindi: The couple had been through an emotional week - Ruby was lost when the car she was travelling in with her owners was stolen from a car park in Bradford on Sunday, but was found alive and well just hours later.
Hindi: उनका उदाहरण

Original English: They had searched frantically for their missing dog and posted appeals on social networking sites after she had ran into the quarry following the minor accident.
Translated Hindi: But desperate efforts to find the two-year-old spaniel had been in vain.
Hindi: उन्हें उनके न दबावे द वाले ग ाड की तलाश

Original English: At around 2.15pm on Wednesday, an eagle-eyed dog walker spotted Ruby on the ledge in the quarry, stranded 50ft up.
Translated Hindi: I have to say, Ruby was not very pleased to see me. She was really trying to get away. I continued to try and lure her down with a reward. It took about half an hour and Ruby started to come down. But she kept looking back at the ledge. She was so close

Original English: A Technical Rescue Team from Cleckheaton Fire Station rushed to the scene and abseiled down to rescue Ruby and used a pet tube to transport her up the cliff.
Translated Hindi: Ruby was then taken to a vets in Cleckheaton where she was given fluids and antibiotics.
Hindi: Cleckheaton फायर स्टेशन का इलेक्ट्रॉनिक रिस्कु

Original English: Specialist Technical Rescue Officer Andy Clayton said: 'She was in a precarious situation.
Translated Hindi: She is lucky to have survived, and was clearly very frightened. We were pleased to help her, and to get her down safely.' Hindi:
परीक्षक तकनीकी बचत अफसर एंड्र

Original English: She was right in the middle of the cliff face - 50ft from the top and bottom.
Translated Hindi: A rockfall would have crushed her, but she was safe. The rockslide would have killed her, but she was safe.
Hindi: वह अपने मध्यम में क्षेत्रीय बर्फ

Original English: She did not move a muscle during the rescue - she was frozen solid.
Translated Hindi: Hindi:
उन्होंने रास्ते पर निकलने के लिये अपना कुछ नहीं किया या बच्

Original English: But she is fine now.
Translated Hindi: She is in hospital. She has got a fracture and she is not able to walk.
Hindi: Par woh theek hai ab. Woh hospital mein hai. Woh fracture se bimaar hai aur woh baithne ke liye tala hua hai.

Next lesson

Original English: She was eating biscuits afterwards.
Translated Hindi: (सरल Hindi
वाक्य की अनुवाद के ड़ोरदार)
Hindi: Pani ke pani se pee rahi thi. (पानी के पानी

Original English: This was a very unusual call-out.
Translated Hindi: The patient was a 27 year-old male. He was found by his wife in a state of unconsciousness on the floor. His face was covered in blood and there was blood in his mouth. He was unconscious and not responding to questions. He had a history of epilepsy but none had been reported

Original English: The fact that the dog was spotted is unbelievable.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: आजादी हिंदुस्तान के दूसरे देशों के लिए ठीक नहीं है ।​
Answer:

Original English: Specialist Technical Rescue Officer Peter Lau said: "Ruby had a very lucky escape."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Aapka bahut bada antar hai. Aapki toh aisi koi shaadi ki nahi hui hai. Aap toh bahut lucky hai. -Ravi
Answered by Good Citizen, 22 Apr '13 02:26 pm

Original English: The potential was there that she could have been very seriously injured or worse.
Translated Hindi: The event was recorded by a witness only a few metres away who has given an account of the incident.
Hindi: यह तमाम स्थिति थी कि उसकी जान या अध

Original English: Ruby was taken to the vets for a check-up and was found to be fine other than exhaustion and dehydration.
Translated Hindi: She was hydrated with an intravenous drip and given antibiotics and painkillers.
Hindi: रूबी को चेकअप के लिए विशेषज्ञ घर लगाय

Original English: Miss Hall, from Halifax, West Yorkshire, said: "Watching the rescue was terrifying."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मिस हैल, हैलैफास के शहर, लेकिन व्यक्ति कहा: “जलनेवाले बच

Original English: I could not believe that she was up there in the first place.
Translated Hindi: It was so far from the ground.
Hindi: Usne mujhe yahin dekhaya ki woh yahin upar pahunch gayi. Yahan se upar tak utne hi door kiya tha.

Original English: It was amazing to get her back in our arms.
Translated Hindi: If you have lost a cat, please be sure to call this number 1-800- PetMeds (738-6337). They will help you get your cat back.
Hindi: ये बलव न था कि हम उस

Original English: The vet said that if she became too exhausted and collapsed she would probably have fallen.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उच्चारण करने में मदद करने के लिए आपको जरूरत पड़ेगी, हम आ

Original English: The firefighters were amazing.
Translated Hindi: They were able to save all the people on the train and the train itself.
Hindi: फ यरम नर स अवसर ह जसक त इ वरग ल वरग ल ग

Original English: It was really daring what they did.
Translated Hindi: A group of five girls from a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Jhabua district. They go to school but their parents were against their going to school. They decided to go to school anyway. Their parents were furious. They were beaten up and locked up in the house. The girls didn’t

Original English: We are just so grateful and every single one of them was absolutely tremendous.
Translated Hindi: I was absolutely delighted with the win and I am just so proud of them all.
Hindi: हमें उन सभी के लिए आभारी रहना है और कुछ

Original English: Mr Alderson, from Keighley, added: "We were scared that she might fall but she stayed there."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: आधार से दिखाती है कि फलने नहीं गई थी। Mr Alderson, from Keighley, added: "We were scared that she might fall

Original English: The firefighters were brilliant.
Translated Hindi: They saved the house from burning down.
Hindi: उन शे पदकर उनके लगाए गए वाले आशिष सवालियों को

Original English: I just can't believe where she was.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मैं उसके परिवार से इसलिए डर रहा हूँ कि वह कहाँ है.
16. Translate the following text from English to Hindi

Original English: Mick Jagger says he never hit on Katy Perry when she was 18.
Translated Hindi: But he
did try to bed her when she was 21. Eeek.
Hindi: Mick Jagger kehta hai usne kati perry ko 18 saal ke baad hi kitna
pyaar karne laga tha. Lekin usne uske

Original English: During an interview with an Australian radio show this week, the pop star said she sang backing vocals for Jagger's 2004 song "Old Habits Die Hard."
Translated Hindi: According to the interviewer, the song features one of the singer's high-pitched voices. "I don't know why people are so surprised," she said. "I've been singing for 20 years. I've got a lung capacity that you could do a run on." "I'm just

Original English: Perry said she had dinner with the veteran rocker and that "he hit on me when I was 18."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वह नाम परिपी है। वह नाम परिपी के बाद वह 18 साल की हुई थी। उनक

Original English: She added, "That was a long time ago, and he's been very kind."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वहें चलते ही उसने बोला, "वो बहुत वक्त हुआ, और वह बहुत आदर

Original English: In a statement Thursday, a representative for Jagger, 70, says he "categorically denies that he has ever made a pass at Katy Perry."
Translated Hindi: The statement comes after Perry told James Corden on "The Late Late Show" on Wednesday night that the rocker had made a pass at her about 10 years ago.
Hindi: इस बार जगगर के एक विश

Original English: The rep adds: "Perhaps she is confusing him with someone else."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उसने कहा ये भी भगवान विश्वास की पुष्पांगिल का आद्या है।

Original English: Perry was one of the singers to make a guest appearance on the Rolling Stones' tour this year.
Translated Hindi: Although she has been around since the 60s, her hits were mostly in the 80s, with her song I Just Wanna Dance being used in the film Pretty Woman. She had a hit in the late 80s with Boys (I Like), and has been quoted as saying that her

Original English: Her new album, "Prism," debuted at No. 1 this week.
Translated Hindi: She's one of the most popular and highest-paid women in music, yet Katy Perry is no longer a "Teenage Dream."
Hindi: उसकी अब तक में 7 खास गीत प्रकाश

Original English: George Kerevan: Europe break-up gives Scots choice
Translated Hindi: Scots have choice to make when it comes to independence. Whatever the outcome of the EU referendum, the breakup of Britain is now on the cards. Brexit, in other words, will almost certainly lead to the breakup of the UK. That is a fact. It is also a fact that, on the

Original English: Another day, another independence scare story.
Translated Hindi: It is getting to the point where the slightest whiff of secession from the UK sends the markets into a spin. The latest one is that the SNP’s latest poll suggests the party could hold an independence referendum by the end of next year. In the event of another referendum, I think it would

Original English: This time we are warned that an independent Scotland would be required to join the Europe-wide free-travel zone as a condition of EU membership.
Translated Hindi: It is not clear that Scottish independence would automatically guarantee that the British Government would be willing to negotiate a special deal with an independent Scotland obtaining the 28 ‘Kosovo’ is a disputed territory of Serbia, which declared independence in 2008. However, Serbia and Russia continue to consider it part

Original English: Cue stories about passport controls at Berwick and a barbed wire border along Hadrian's Wall.
Translated Hindi: Cue the French and the Germans, who laugh at the Brits' attempts to build an island fortress. Cue the Brits' pride in their own history, and their land, their people and their language. Cue the Brits' ability to laugh at themselves. Cue the Brits' capacity to

Original English: True, the Strathclyde paper pointed out the possible economic benefits of freer movement with the rest of Europe, though - predictably - that did not figure in the headlines.
Translated Hindi: But it did not find that people in Scotland would gain much more from freedom of movement with the rest of the UK than they do now.
Hindi: आजकल लगभग दुनियावस्त्र आ

Original English: Nor did anyone point out that the EU member states spend much of their time bending their formal rules if it suits them.
Translated Hindi: This is a political reality, which has been applied to the euro, and in which the Commission is involved. We have to be realistic in this case.
Hindi: ऐसा नहीं बताया कि ईयर पूर

Original English: Since Scotland isn't in the Schengen area now, continued non-compliance would be a cheap concession for Brussels to offer up in return for whatever it really wanted out of the Scots.
Translated Hindi: But it would be a high risk bargain. An independent Scotland might, indeed, be forced to abide by the Schengen provisions. But the risk of being ejected from the EU altogether would be far greater.

Original English: So, a non-story, then.
Translated Hindi: I know of one, at least. There was this guy, you see, his name was Tom. Tom was a fine man, good at his work, and very generous. He had a friend, too, a guy named Jerry. And, one day, Tom gave Jerry some money. Now

Original English: And one that is so long in the tooth it has become fossilised: I first heard the "independence means passport controls" canard at least 40 years ago.
Translated Hindi: I have not heard it being used (too often) in recent years, but it is back with a vengeance. It is used as a weapon in the war against Scotland's independence from the UK, and is meant to frighten voters into voting No. It is designed to stop Scotland from leaving an

Original English: Yet there is an interesting point lost in this retelling of a whiskery old tale.
Translated Hindi: The story of the fox and the cat is not a story of fox vs. cat. It is a story of fox and cat working together. You see, the fox and the cat are friends who live deep in the forest. They are never apart. For some time, they had been planning to

Original English: Why should an independent Scotland be expected to do Europe's bidding, anyway?
Translated Hindi: We have a history, a culture, a government and a military whose primary loyalty is to the British people, not to some anonymous European bureaucracy. And that's how we want it to stay.
Hindi: क्यों सात्विक अर्थ

Original English: Why trade London's yoke for that of Brussels, especially now?
Translated Hindi: Get rid of the yoke of the European Union and reclaim the people's sovereignty.
Hindi: क्यों भारत में लंडन के बेगोले यूएन योग

Original English: Here is the real European news: the great, post-war plan to unite Europe has finally stalled.
Translated Hindi: The project to create a European army has been declared dead, at least for now.
Hindi: यह सच्ची ईस्टरन ख़बर: वर्तमान में ईस्ट

Original English: With the euro crisis, Project Europe is officially dead.
Translated Hindi: We must now think about the future of Europe and about what I want to call the euro area.' On this occasion, I want to talk to you about the euro area and the euro area's future.
Hindi: बाढ़ के साथ यूर

Original English: Across the EU, parties which are dedicated to opposing the EU, or to scrapping the euro as a common currency, are gaining ground.
Translated Hindi: These forces are on the rise in the United Kingdom, Sweden, the Netherlands and France. They are gaining influence, for example in the European Parliament, and are making a difference to EU policy. The economic crisis has, however, had the effect that we are starting to see a new, convergent

Original English: Even in Germany, the Eurosceptic Alternative for Germany Party - founded only this year - came from nowhere to grab nearly five million votes in September's federal elections, thus effectively knocking the Free Democrats (equivalent to our own Lib Dems) out of the Bundestag.
Translated Hindi: The AFD is pro-Brexit.  It is also anti-Euro, anti-refugee, anti-immigrant, anti-Islam, anti-NATO, and pro-Russian. Its leader is Frauke Petry, an economist who in 2012 said that German Chancellor Angela Merkel

Original English: There has always been domestic opposition to the plan to create a federal Europe.
Translated Hindi: But federalism cannot be achieved without a measure of popular enthusiasm in every country. The road to the federal state that is being paved has to be crossed by all countries in the same era.
Hindi: अराजकता के लिए सार्व

Original English: However, the current economic crisis has proved a watershed.
Translated Hindi: It has offered the opportunity to rethink the overall strategy. It has forced the EU to set a new agenda. It has underlined the importance of a more pragmatic approach. It has brought to light the need for a more innovative and cohesive approach. It has highlighted the importance of greater flexibility. It has

Original English: The austerity imposed by Berlin and the European Central Bank, coupled with the straitjacket imposed on national economies through adherence to the common currency, has led many people to think Project Europe has gone too far.
Translated Hindi: The resulting rise in Euroscepticism could spell trouble for the German chancellor.

Hindi: बेर्लिन और इटारिया का आर्थिक मौक़दवारी

Original English: The crisis of the euro has little to do with national governments running excessive budget deficits - that was true only of Greece.
Translated Hindi: As long as Europe's weak economies, like Italy, can borrow at low rates, they can pay off their debts. The problem is that the euro fails to function as a single currency for the euro zone as a whole. The failure is not just because of the different nationalities, but also because

Original English: Rather, the euro system locked in its members at exchange rates favourable to German exporters - something German politicians want to keep.
Translated Hindi: That’s the euro’s true inner dog.
Hindi: तो नीमहँ, ये क्रोमो वस्तुएँ अपने लेखकों के व्य

Original English: Without the possibility of domestic currency devaluation, southern Europe finds itself with a built-in productivity disadvantage vis-à-vis Germany.
Translated Hindi: As a result, the German current account surplus has steadily grown, and is now at 8.5% of GDP, the highest in the world (excluding resource-rich countries).
Hindi: दूसरा संगठनों का शक

Original English: The only recourse is to slash wages and public spending - spurred on by Berlin.
Translated Hindi: The only hope now is that the economic downturn will be so severe that the world's export markets collapse, and the US, China and other emerging countries suffer so much that they cannot export their debt problems to Europe.
Hindi: वह वक़्त उत

Original English: Beyond the current budget and currency problems lies a deeper European productivity malaise.
Translated Hindi: In part this is a problem of skills and education. But it is also a problem of low investment, which creates a vicious circle with the low rates of return on investment. It has also created a
malaise in some of the policy instruments, which can be used to increase demand and growth,

Original English: As a result of "green" energy policies imposed by Brussels - code for subsidising French and German energy firms at the consumer's expense - European industry pays twice as much for electricity, and four times as much for gas, as in the United States.
Translated Hindi: In fact, the European Union is the most expensive place in the world to run a factory.
Hindi: ब्रस्टेन सरकार ने अपने ब्लू-एन-बी के

Original English: That is a crippling cost disadvantage, as we've already seen at Grangemouth.
Translated Hindi: I hope the Minister will tell the House today what measures he is going to take to reduce that burden on UK businesses.
Hindi: Yeh is kharab dooshitv ka avayoshna hai, jaise grangemouth mein hua tha. Hamen is daam par

Original English: All the wage freezes in the world won't stop the European petrochemicals industry being hammered by cheap US shale gas.
Translated Hindi: What's needed is a radical rethink of the way chemicals are made.
Hindi: Yeh laal aayu tak ubharne ke alawa sabhi janakari saaf nahi hai. Yah bharatiy petrochemicals industry ko mehnga rupaiy

Original English: As a result, revolt is brewing, especially in France, once the EU's main cheerleader.
Translated Hindi: It is time for Europe to rethink its policies, and to come up with a new approach to the world that is more pragmatic and focused on interests. The EU must be ready to realise that, in this new world, it will no longer dominate.
Hindi: रास्ट्र

Original English: After the war, the French political elite saw the EU as a vehicle to keep Germany in check, and to give Paris equal billing in the world with Washington.
Translated Hindi: If France had had the time and space to play a more prominent role in forging the EU, the euro would have been a de facto French franc that would have benefited the French economy more. But leaders were in a race to the finish before Germany had a chance to get going.
Hindi:

Original English: But Berlin no longer needs Paris as a passport to political legitimacy and has imposed its own economic policy on Europe, leaving the battered French economy struggling.
Translated Hindi: This is a phenomenon that is also happening in India. The regime in India has become more and more authoritarian, the constitutional institutions have been undermined, and the economy has been pushed into a downward spiral. On the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the birth of Mahatma Gandhi, this downward

Original English: Result: Marine Le Pen's right-wing, anti-EU National Front has just won a crucial by-election, knocking the ruling Socialists into third place.
Translated Hindi: She won the contest, in the south-western town of Henin-Beaumont, by a landslide of more than 60% of the vote.
Translation: मारिना लपेन का दक्षता एक श

Original English: The Front is now the most popular party in France with 24 per cent of the vote - a timely warning to British Labour that they can't assume a split on the right will automatically favour the left.
Translated Hindi: The Front has gained a lot of strength, and a lot of support since the last time they were in power. They also gained many new supporters yesterday. The Front's leader, Jean-Marie Le Pen, is 77 years old. He has led the party since 1972, and he

Original English: What is Le Pen doing with her newfound popularity among the French white, working class?
Translated Hindi: She is knocking on their doors, shaking their hands, meeting with them, and listening to their grievances, which she has then been able to turn into a political program. In fact, the popularity of the Front National among the white working class has grown steadily over the past twenty years. Le Pen’s

Original English: She wants to use next year's EU elections to create an anti-EU, anti-common currency bloc across the European Parliament.
Translated Hindi: She wants to use the EU as a platform to attack national governments and, in particular, France. She wants to use the EU to promote nationalism and territorial claims. She wants to use the EU as a tool to promote a protectionist, inward-looking, non-integral Franco-German partnership, while

Original English: If, as is very possible, anti-EU parties do well in these elections, such a bloc could dominate the European Parliament for the first time.
Translated Hindi: This would give a new impetus to the democratic legitimacy of the EU. It would also give the chance to view the European parliament as a real legislative chamber. The EU would become a truly parliamentary union, with a strong democratic legitimisation and a capacity to legislate. The members of the European Parliament

Original English: Here's my point: sometime soon growing anti-EU and anti-common currency feeling in Europe will coalesce to kill the euro.
Translated Hindi: When it does, the rest of the world is going to be in for some nasty surprises. The EU is the world's largest economy, and its biggest trading partner. The US will have to deal with a far weaker Europe. That's going to cause a huge ripple effect. And it will be

Original English: The EU won't disappear, but it will revert to something more like the loose "Europe of the (Sovereign) Nations" favoured by General de Gaulle.
Translated Hindi: It's already happening. The European Central Bank has already taken the first tentative steps towards a Eurobond in order to keep Italy and Spain afloat, effectively ordering them to merge their finances.
Hindi: ये यह नहीं होगा कि

Original English: Germany and a few of its satellite economies might keep the euro but France and southern Europe will revive their own currencies.
Translated Hindi: The southern European economies will be stronger and the euro weaker.
Hindi: जर्मनी और उसकी कुछ असंतुष्ट जनवरीय वित्ती

Original English: I expect the UK will distance itself from this project, hoping to cosy up to the US.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मैं इस योजना से भारत से दूर होने की उम्मीद करता हूँ। अम

Original English: However, Washington's growing interest in the Pacific suggests Britain will be left out in the Atlantic cold.
Translated Hindi: Washington has been courting India, Japan, Australia and Indonesia, all former imperial powers, and is keen to expand its influence in the region. In June, the US signed a strategic partnership with India, and the visit to the UK by India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh next month has been

Original English: Where does this leave Scotland?
Translated Hindi: What are the choices?
Hindi: कहाँ उसे बाहर बाहर आया है? क्या उन्होंने चुनाव क्या से

Original English: We can choose to be a region of (essentially) Little England.
Translated Hindi: Or we can choose to be a region of Europe. Or both, of course. It's up to us. But if we choose the former, it will be to the detriment of our economy, our employment prospects, our incomes, our standard of living and our freedoms. It will also mean the

Original English: Or we can defend our own economic interests - which includes telling Berlin and Brussels where to get off.
Translated Hindi: http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-17116515
Hindi: Or hum apne apne ekonya keshan ko daan dena chahte hain - jo, Berlin aur Brussels ko kahaan chhod dena hai. http://www

Original English: I suspect that Scotland could do well inside a looser European arrangement provided we kept our own currency.
Translated Hindi: For the time being it would be better for us to stay out of the euro. The Irish have been bitten once again by their belief that joining the euro was a step towards joining the club of rich European countries. It is a bit like a modern version of the Gold Standard, which was the dominant

Original English: Co-operation with other like-minded countries will be easier in a non-federal Europe of the Nations.
Translated Hindi: It is not in our interest to weaken the position of the European Union, but to make it stronger. 2. What does the expression “non-federal Europe of the Nations” means ?
Ans: A federal Europe of Nations means that Europe’s political organizations would be governed by a single Parliament,

Original English: Otherwise we should consider emulating Norway and retaining our economic independence.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यद् इन्द्रगुण, भूलकर हम नोरया दिलाये व अर्थव्यवस्था क

Original English: The SNP government in Scotland is - remarkably-- the most successful anti-austerity political movement in Europe, having won a spectacular majority in 2011 on the basis of opposing the cuts proposed (and implemented) by Labour's chancellor Alistair Darling and the subsequent Tory-Lib Dem coalition.
Translated Hindi: In the wake of a 2012 budget that included a 10p income tax rate for low earners, increased income tax on those earning over £100,000, and a 2% cap on spending increases, the SNP has since 2012 been the only party in the UK to campaign

Original English: It would be ridiculous now for Scotland to vote for independence only to accept austerity imposed by Berlin and Brussels.
Translated Hindi: The only way to bring about a better future is to work together. This is not about Old Europe versus New Europe. It is about Europe versus the market. Those who have money and power are trying to impose their will on every country. We have to stand together to defend the people's interests.

Original English: Early puberty: Growing older sooner
Translated Hindi: ?
The hormone that triggers the growth of pubic hair at the age of 10 is called the Puberty Hormone.
The question is “What is the cause of this hormone?”, and the answer is “The environment.” The level of the hormone in the environment has increased due to environmental pollution

Original English: African-American and Hispanic girls tend to reach puberty earlier than their white counterparts, research shows.
Translated Hindi: A 2005 study of 1,000 girls by the University of California found that black and Hispanic girls entered puberty at 10.2 and 10.6 years respectively, compared to 11.7 for white girls. The study found that black girls were 1.3 times more

Original English: Physical changes don't mean puberty is imminent
Translated Hindi: . The only way to know if you've started puberty is to see a doctor. The medical term is gonadarche.
Hindi: शरीरी सुलभता बढ़ते की विश्वास

Original English: There's no evidence that hormones or other chemicals are to blame
Translated Hindi: for the increase in the incidence of breast cancer in recent years.
Hindi: इसके लिए कीजिए मशहूर अथवा अनुभव रिकॉर

Original English: Experts think the obesity epidemic might be one trigger of early puberty
Translated Hindi: in girls. Puberty is when children start to develop into adults. Girls usually start puberty between 10 and 14 years of age. Boys usually start puberty between the ages of 10 and 16 years. The rate of early puberty has been increasing over the last 30 years. Obesity is

Original English: The trend toward early puberty is not as pronounced with boys
Translated Hindi: as it is with girls, but it is still present. The average age of puberty in boys is around 11 years old. Puberty starts with a surge in testosterone, which is the hormone that makes boys grow taller and develop masculine characteristics. Although puberty usually begins with the growth of pubic hair

Original English: Former CNN correspondent Pat Etheridge is a journalist specializing in children's health and family issues.
Translated Hindi: She has written for a variety of publications, including the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, New York Times Syndicate, and Parents Magazine. She is currently the author of several titles in the Pregnancy For Dummies series.
Hindi: Former CNN correspondent Pat Etheridge एक लेखक ह

Original English: Should a mother be alarmed if her daughter begins to sprout breast buds and pubic hair at 7 or 8?
Translated Hindi: Gynaecologists say she shouldn't. After all, puberty is starting a little earlier these days.
Hindi: अगर अपनी बेटी 7 या 8 के बीचें दैत

Original English: At the annual conference of the American Academy of Pediatrics this week in Orlando, Florida, pediatric endocrinologist Dr. Paul Kaplowitz explained that these early physical changes are quite common among American girls and represent a new norm.
Translated Hindi: At their annual checkup, perhaps 30 percent of girls in the United States of all races and socioeconomic levels will show signs of puberty: breast development, pubic hair, hair under the arms and on the legs, acne, menstrual cycles. In the past, that number was closer to 15

Original English: "I spend a lot of time reassuring parents -- usually, this does not signal a rapid progression into full puberty," said Kaplowitz.
Translated Hindi: "However, this anxiety can also be a sign that a child has gender dysphoria, in which case, the child should be evaluated by a psychologist or social worker with experience in this area."
Hindi: "meri bhasha hindi hai"

Posted by: Admin on 8th

Original English: Obvious signs of development, such as budding breasts, pubic and underarm hair and body odor are appearing sooner in girls.
Translated Hindi: This can be due to the increased production of estrogen and growth hormones. Boys also are maturing faster, but at a slower rate. The age of onset for puberty is between 8 and 12 for girls and 10 and 13 for boys.
Hindi: महिलाओ

Original English: But there has been only a slight shift in the age of menarche (the first period) over the past four decades.
Translated Hindi: In 1960, the median age was 15 years, and it is now 12.9 years. The mean age has gone from 15.2 years in 1960 to 12.8 years in 1990. The median age at first birth, on the other hand

Original English: In the United States, the average age is 12.5 years, down from 12.75 in 1970.
Translated Hindi: In 2002, the average American had 10.2 teeth extracted in a lifetime, down from 9.5 in 1980. In 2002, the average American had 3.4 teeth filled or restored in a lifetime, down from 3.6 in 198

Original English: "Once breasts begin to develop, it takes at least two to three years before menarche," said Kaplowitz, also author of "Early Puberty in Girls: The Essential Guide to Coping with This Common Problem."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: "चुभना परिवार पर चुभना परिवार की तरफ चुभना तालिका के उपासन

Original English: Time is the most accurate test of how puberty is going to progress.
Translated Hindi: It is the most important sign. In girls, the onset of the first menstrual period is the most important sign of puberty. The first menstrual period is called the menarche. In boys, the first sperm is called the spermarche.
Hindi: Time this most accurate test how puberty is

Original English: There is debate about what constitutes the actual onset of puberty, but it is considered "precocious" when breast enlargement is accompanied by a growth spurt before age 8.
Translated Hindi: In the U.S., about 1 in 3,000 girls experience this condition, which is usually caused by an adrenal gland tumor. The condition is usually cured with surgery.
Hindi: यह लेख में एक एक बात म

Original English: In most cases, the process will slow down or stall -- something a pediatrician can monitor closely.
Translated Hindi: But if the child is too young to communicate with, a pediatrician may not be able to figure out whether the child is in pain or whether they need to be fed. In these situations, the clinician may need to do more than just observe to make sure the infant is receiving the appropriate care

Original English: A more rapid progression may warrant tests by an endocrinologist to rule out serious problems such as tumors or cysts.
Translated Hindi: If the growth rate is normal, the patient is referred to a dermatologist, who provides the treatment. The physician can also help the parent determine what to do if the condition worsens.
Hindi: संबंधित डॉक्टर को

Original English: There are treatments to delay early menses and ward off another consequence: premature aging of the bones that ultimately can lead to stunted growth and being short as an adult.
Translated Hindi: So it is important that a girl who has begun menstruating should be given calcium supplements. The amount of calcium a girl needs is about the same as for a boy.
Hindi: यह तथ्य है कि सुबर जी

Original English: Recommendations for drug or hormone therapy are based on the child's age, rate of development, growth rate and emotional maturity.
Translated Hindi: Parents should formulate a schedule for medications that takes into account these factors. Medication should be taken at the same time every day, preferably in the morning. If the child is not taking medication at the planned time, the parent should note the time and report this to the physician.

Original English: Psychosocial aspects are important, too.
Translated Hindi: They must be considered along with medical factors. The need of the patient and his family for information, support, and counseling must be met.
Hindi: मनोविषयिक लक्षण भी अनुच्छ

Original English: Kaplowitz is cautious with medication but acknowledges, "suppressing puberty may alleviate behavioral issues and girls' feelings of being different from peers."
Translated Hindi: Meanwhile, he says, "it's important to work with a patient on self-esteem issues." Hindi: कड़ा और क्लेमारी को दवाई के लिए फर्जी अ

Original English: The other big issue is understandable: Parents simply don't want their very young daughters having periods.
Translated Hindi: It seems unbelievable to us, but it's true: Many women and girls in the region still believe that they must stay away from public places or even banished from home when they have their menses, because it's considered "dirty" and "unholy." The consequences of this kind of

Original English: "They worry about the risk of pregnancy or even how they will handle hygiene," said Kaplowitz.
Translated Hindi: "They don't want to have to explain to a potential employer why they are missing work, or miss a job over something that will soon be over."
Hindi: "वे गर्भवती होने की जिम्म

Original English: "It was a shock," recalls one woman whose daughter started her period at 10.
Translated Hindi: "She was very small for her age, and it was very difficult to talk about it." Hindi: "यह एक उत्तेजना था" सुनते हुए एक महिला न

Original English: Even though there were signs and we had talked about menstruation, she was not emotionally prepared.
Translated Hindi: She was not ready for it. We thought it would be better to keep her at home. We didn’t want her to go to school. She would not have been able to cope.
Hindi: Dusra baat, humne kaha ki chhidra sarkar thi humne

Original English: She came home from school scared and upset to be the first among her friends.
Translated Hindi: Her mother asked her if she did anything wrong. She replied, “I did not know that I did, but they are telling me that I am wrong. I did not do it on purpose.” She was shocked when her mother said, “Then you are not wrong.”
Hindi: Wo school

Original English: There are lots of well-publicized theories about the causes of precocious puberty.
Translated Hindi: Some people believe it is due to environmental toxins, such as pesticides, lead or mercury. Others believe it is due to excess exposure to estrogens through the use of certain prescription drugs, such as antibiotics and oral contraceptives.
Hindi: कुछ लोग क

Original English: Yet, there's no consistent body of evidence that hormones in milk or other foods, chemicals in the environment or sexual messages in the media are to blame.
Translated Hindi: Much of the evidence linking hormones in milk to early puberty is circumstantial, with no convincing proof that hormones are the culprit.
Hindi: अधिकतर मात्र नामगणितानुसार, द

Original English: Boys - like girls - are hitting puberty earlier.
Translated Hindi: In the past 30 years, the average age of menarche in girls has dropped by 4 months. Scientists say this could be due to changes in the environment and their diet.
Hindi: लड़कियां - लड़क

Original English: Kaplowitz contends the premise that holds the most weight is the epidemic of obesity.
Translated Hindi: That is, a genuine paucity of exercise and a very high caloric intake are the primary factors leading to the obesity epidemic. As to the latter, it is not the number of calories that matters, but calorie density, which is mostly a function of the ratio of carbs to protein and fat

Original English: He helped conduct a 2001 study of 6- to 9-year-old girls that links body fat to the timing of puberty.
Translated Hindi: The study found that, on average, girls start puberty at 10. He also found that the number of girls who are overweight or obese has increased in the past two decades.
Hindi:
Vijaya Konda, a Professor at the University of North Dakota, is an expert on the role

Original English: Other findings support this conclusion, but there are many other contributing factors.
Translated Hindi: For example, in the past, the elderly and the sick were cared for by families. In recent decades, a variety of social changes have occurred. The population has grown older, the extended family has disintegrated, and the number of single-parent families has increased significantly. In addition, more and

Original English: In this country, African-American and Hispanic girls tend to reach puberty earlier than their white counterparts.
Translated Hindi: Here is a list of other factors associated with early puberty:
- Family history of early puberty
Short stature
Excess weight
Growth hormone treatment or treatment for Turner syndrome
Low estrogen levels
A history of radiation therapy
A family history of breast cancer. (From the National Institutes of Health

Original English: There are varying explanations.
Translated Hindi: Recently a survey has been conducted in the name of the great writer Rabindranath Tagore. This survey is being conducted in the name of Tagore. As per the survey, it is found that there is a decline in the interest of the youth of this country towards literature. The survey is

Original English: Globally, patterns of early puberty appear to be influenced by everything from economic conditions to climate to genes.
Translated Hindi: The trend of earlier onset of puberty is of particular concern because it has been linked to sleep deprivation and obesity.
Hindi: दुनियाईमें प्राचीनतमें बाल उत्पादन के

Original English: Another conundrum: Although boys are getting facial and pubic hair at younger ages, the trend toward full-blown early puberty is not as pronounced as it is with girls.
Translated Hindi: They show no signs of the early onset of puberty that contributes to their obesity. Over the past decade, rates of obesity in adolescent boys increased by 40 percent, according to the CDC. But for girls, rates of obesity increased by 80 percent.
Hindi:

एक एक

Original English: Other doctors attending the AAP conference reinforced the complexities of the topic.
Translated Hindi: Dr. Peter Lurie, Deputy Commissioner of the FDA, gave a presentation that was well received, but he was not able to provide very specific answers to questions. He did, however, respond to a suggestion that the FDA should consider using a "black box" warning for certain antibiotics. The

Original English: The appearance of acne and pubic hair is common even in infants and toddlers.
Translated Hindi: During the puberty stage, the hormonal changes trigger the development of acne in the face and body. A teenager’s body is full of hormones, which are the cause of acne in their teen age. Acne is not a contagious disease. Bacteria and dirt do not cause acne. Acne is not

Original English: "We need to be careful about how we identify the true onset of puberty," said Dr. Lawrence Silverman, a pediatric endocrinologist at Goryeb Children's Hospital in Morristown, New Jersey.
Translated Hindi: "We are seeing children at younger ages with indicators of puberty such as increased breast size, body odor, pubic hair and acne. These are all signs that may trigger the start of puberty, but they are not necessarily the true onset of puberty." Hindi: "Hum iska sahi rashaya

Original English: Parents should not hesitate to get guidance from their pediatrician about how to talk with their child.
Translated Hindi: But they should also take the guidance of experts in the field of child development.
अंग्रेजी : बच्चे के बारे में बात करने के लिए अप

Original English: "It may mean having a sooner-than-expected conversation," Kaplowitz advised.
Translated Hindi: "If you do have a heart attack and you survive, it is a big wake-up call. It might mean a heart attack is the right thing." Hindi: यह कहने को लेकर मैं आपको बत

Original English: If you remain calm, your child usually will respond well.
Translated Hindi: If you yell or hit, you can only exacerbate the situation and make it worse. The goal is to get your child’s cooperation without having to resort to force or punishment.
Hindi: अगर आप निष्क्रिय हों

Original English: Girls who blossom early need reassurance that, even when it happens ahead of schedule, the process is a normal part of life.
Translated Hindi: This is the best way to head off any emotional issues that might otherwise arise. If a girl enters puberty before her peers, puberty may be a more emotional experience for her.
Also, girls who enter puberty before their peers may be teased, which can be very hurtful. It is important to educate

Original English: A drop in temperature of 3.1 degrees was recorded on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: The minimum temperature in the national capital settled at 2.8 degree Celsius, which was four notches below the season's average. The maximum temperature recorded was 15.6 degrees Celsius, which was two notches below average. Northwesterly winds continued to blow in the national capital.

Original English: The rain and cold wind on Wednesday night made people feel cold.
Translated Hindi: The clouds in the sky are getting heavy. We can see lightning and hear thunder. We need to take raincoats and umbrellas. We can't go out without them. If we wear thick clothes, we can get protection from the cold. The coat and the trousers are warm. We can

Original English: On Thursday people left for the markets and their other destinations wearing sweaters.
Translated Hindi: On Saturday there was a lot of rain and snow and they wore sweaters, jackets, and overcoats. On Tuesday there was a lot of snow and it was very cold. On Wednesday it was very cold and windy. On Friday it was sunny and the weather was good for playing.
H

Original English: After the first rain of the winter people took out their quilts.
Translated Hindi: They enjoyed the softness of the quilts. The summer is over. The winter has come. The days are short and nights are long.
Hindi: बादलों के बाद पहली बार धरती पर

Original English: People were seen enjoying the sunshine in the morning.
Translated Hindi: The beggars were on the streets. The children were playing and enjoying in the park. They were eating the samosa. The people were drinking the nimbu pani. The children were asking for ice-cream. The bunny was enjoying by jumping. The kingkong was enjoying by eating the

Original English: Once the climate changes there will be relief from colds and other illnesses but after that the clouds kept playing hide and seek with the sun.
Translated Hindi: So, the sun hid behind the clouds. Then the clouds came before the sun.
Hindi: Oonchi dhaani ko zyadatar garmi se bachate huye ek din shuru hui ek aawaz, ki hain aayi basanti, a

Original English: The children also went to school wearing sweaters.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: बच्चे भी स्वेटर पहनकर विद्यालय जा रहे थे। 

Answer:

हिंदी: ब

Original English: According to the air force weather department the maximum temperatures on Thursday was 25.1 degree Celsius and the minimum temperatures was 13.7 degree Celsius.
Translated Hindi: The relative humidity in the morning was 97 percent and in the evening it was 38 percent.

Hindi: वायु सेना की मौसम विभाग वर्षा के बाद द

Original English: 7.8 millimetres of rainfall was recorded.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: राष्ट्रीय राज विद्यालय ने चार वर्षों के अनुसार उपराष्ट्री

Original English: According to the weather department the skies will be cloudy.
Translated Hindi: It is likely to rain during the next two days. If it rains in the night, then there will be a flood in the nearby river. The water in the river will rise to the danger mark. So the people living near the river will have to be warned.
Hindi: व

Original English: Jet makers feud over seat width with big orders at stake
Translated Hindi: Hindi: बैकायत के ख़िलाफ ट्रान्साइटर की वापसी निर्देशानुसार बाह

Original English: A row has flared up between leading plane makers over the width of tourist-class seats on long-distance flights, setting the tone for a bitter confrontation at this month's Dubai Airshow.
Translated Hindi: Airbus Industries says it will offer a seat as narrow as 17.2 inches (43.7 cm), about two inches narrower than the current width of 19.4 inches (49.3 cm). Boeing says its minimum width will remain 18.5 inches (47 cm) for new

Original English: The dispute focuses on the width of seats provided on long-haul flights for economy passengers - not always the ones most courted by airlines, but whose allocated space holds the key to efficiency claims for the latest jets offered by Airbus SAS and Boeing Co.
Translated Hindi: The International Air Transport Association is negotiating with airplane manufacturers to ensure that seats don’t get too narrow or too close together in future models. The Geneva-based airline industry group’s initiative is an attempt to head off new legislation being considered by the European Commission, which is demanding that airlines allow passengers to recline

Original English: Airbus this week called for an industry standard that would provide for a seat at least 18 inches (46 cm) wide in economy cabins, but its U.S. arch-rival Boeing says it should be for airlines to decide.
Translated Hindi: "We believe that 18 inches is the basic standard that should be applied across the industry," the European aircraft manufacturer said in a statement Tuesday. Airbus, which has a 50 percent share of the global commercial jetliner market, said the standard should apply to all new aircraft produced for the next

Original English: The dispute comes as plane makers vie to sell ever-larger versions of their twin-engined long-distance aircraft, with potentially record orders expected at the November 17-21 event.
Translated Hindi: Airbus and Boeing are each hoping to win a 200-plus aircraft order from Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international traffic, to supplement its existing fleet of 150 A380s and 140 777s. But a row has erupted over what size of aircraft Emirates should buy, with Airbus

Original English: How the back of the plane is laid out - particularly whether seating is 9 or 10 abreast - is central to the economic performance claims being made for new "mini-jumbo" jet designs.
Translated Hindi: These planes will have the same wingspan as Boeing's 747, but will seat fewer passengers, typically 210 on long-haul flights and 250 on short- and medium-range routes.
Hindi: पार्ट में वास्तविक

Original English: Boeing says its revamped "777X" will hold 406 people based on economy seats more than 17 inches wide and set out 10 in each row.
Translated Hindi: That's the largest number of passengers the company has ever carried on one plane.
Hindi: Boeing ne kaha hai ki us ney modifued (modern) "777X" ka use karega aur us me 406 log bethenge jinko 17 inch ka kh

Original English: Airbus says the competing version of its A350 will carry 350 people in 18-inch-wide economy seat laid out 9 abreast.
Translated Hindi: The European company said Monday the 350-seater will have 58 more seats than the current version of the 900, which can carry 292 passengers in 18-inch-wide seats laid out 10 abreast. The 350 will have 8 less seats than the widest version of the

Original English: Plane giants often trade blows on technical matters through advertising in the trade press.
Translated Hindi: In the case of the A380 and B787, the airlines have taken the battle to the streets. Both aircraft are due to enter service around 2010, and the debate is already hotting up.
Hindi: प्लान गिटन की इं

Original English: Now, Airbus is appealing directly to the public ahead of the Dubai Airshow, where the 777X is expected to dominate with more than 100 orders.
Translated Hindi: The company is running a social media campaign that lets people vote on which airport, anywhere in the world, they would like to see the 777X fly into. Only a handful of people have voted, but the winner so far is London Heathrow, with 36 percent of the vote.
H

Original English: It recently previewed what may be the start of a new ad war by showing financiers a slide illustrating three people squashed together at a restaurant, titled "Would You Accept This?"
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इसके बाद उसने एक नई वायरल की खुशखबरी का पर्दाफाश किया जिस

Original English: "Boeing is proposing long-distance flying in seats narrower than regional turbo-props," said Airbus sales chief John Leahy.
Translated Hindi: "We don't think this is a good idea."
Hindi: "Boeing ke propose kar raha hai, long-distance flying, seats narrow than regional turbo-prop," said Airbus sales chief John Leahy. "We don't think this is a good idea."

English: "This is the

Original English: As diets change, people get bigger but plane seating has not radically changed.
Translated Hindi: A typical plane seat is 18 inches wide (46 cm) and 31 inches (79 cm) high. In the 1950s, the average person was 5 feet 7 inches (170cm) tall and weighed 166 pounds (75 kg). Today, the average person is

Original English: Between the early 1970s, when the Boeing 747 jumbo defined modern long-haul travel, and the turn of the century, the weight of the average American 40- to 49-year-old male increased by 10 per cent, according to U.S. Health Department Data.
Translated Hindi: Today, the average adult male weighs 195 pounds (89 kg) and the average adult female 165 pounds (75 kg), according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But a combination of factors have caused the average weight of adult men and women to increase by almost 20

Original English: The waist of the average 21st-century American male is 39.7 inches, according to U.S. health statistics.
Translated Hindi: That’s up from 38.2 inches in 1999, the last time the data was collected. The average size of the waist was 37.5 inches in 1971.
Hindi: एमआर स्टेट स्टेट ट

Original English: Airbus says its rival is sticking to a seat concept from the 1950s, when the average girth of the newly christened "jet set" was narrower.
Translated Hindi: For the passengers, the change means more space, but the airline has to give up a row of seats.
Hindi: एयरबस का वर्ग भारत को बदलने के लिए

Original English: Airbus says it has commissioned research suggesting an extra inch in seat width improves sleep quality by 53 per cent.
Translated Hindi: The study was carried out by the London Sleep Centre and found that even a small increase in seat width, from 41 to 42 inches, could have a huge impact on a passenger’s comfort.
Hindi: एयरबस ने कहा कि

Original English: Boeing disputes Airbus's figures on seat measurements and says it is not up to manufacturers to step into decisions on how airlines balance fares and facilities.
Translated Hindi: The dispute centers on a new Airbus A380 superjumbo, which will seat 555 passengers in a three-class configuration. Boeing says the A380's seat pitch will be about 35 inches, or 88 centimeters, one inch less than its own 747-400's. Airbus says

Original English: It also says research shows cabin experience depends on more than the width of a seat.
Translated Hindi: It’s the combination of width, padded headrest, and legroom that creates the most comfortable experience. You’ll find all that, and more of it, in the new A320.
you will be given a similar passage in the online exam to translate into Hindi (or vice versa) from Hindi

Original English: "It really comes down to providing flexibility to airlines and allowing them to do the things that they believe they need to do to be successful," said Boeing cabins expert Kent Craver.
Translated Hindi: "There are a number of options. There are a large number of things that we can do to enable airlines to do the things that they need to do." Hindi: "यह आपको हमेशा बस उनके जो क

Original English: They don't want us to dictate to them what makes them profitable.
Translated Hindi: They want us to do the best that we can. To be profitable we have to have the best technology, the best education, the best products, and the best people. Profitability is not about cutting costs. It is about making more money. Profitability is not about sitting in the corner and

Original English: They know their business better than anyone else.
Translated Hindi: They know how to get the job done. They are the best at what they do. They are the experts.
Hindi: जो लोग अपनी व्यवस्था की जानकारी स

Original English: For flyers it is about more elbow room, but for suppliers it is increasingly an issue that could affect earnings.
Translated Hindi: A recent industry report showed that aircraft seats are getting bigger and people are getting smaller. Airlines are able to offer a greater choice in seat sizes to meet varying customer preferences.
Hindi: यारों ये ट्रांसपोर्ट ट

Original English: Behind the dispute is a race for plane orders with at least $700-billion of estimated business at list prices in coming decades, enough to tip the scales of U.S. and European exports.
Translated Hindi: The United States hopes that a new trade agreement with India will help open the door to the market.
Hindi: पीछे विवाद के बीच जानपद है प्लेन आर

Original English: As Reuters first reported in July, seat layout is exactly what drives the battle between the latest jets.
Translated Hindi: The A380 is the only plane that can accommodate up to 853 passengers while the 787 can have 290. The 777 can carry 365. The question, though, is how many people will want to pay for the experience of a wide-body plane, which is usually one of the

Original English: Both Airbus and Boeing claim 20 per cent better efficiency per seat in their latest twin-engined long-haul designs than the market leader in that segment, the 365-seat Boeing 777-300ER.
Translated Hindi: Both Airbus and Boeing claim 20 per cent better efficiency per seat in their latest twin-engined long-haul designs than the market leader in that segment, the 365-seat Boeing 777-300ER. Both Airbus and Boeing claim 20 per cent better efficiency per seat in their latest twin-eng

Original English: Boeing's performance claims depend in part on comparing the 10-abreast 777X with an original 9-abreast 777 design.
Translated Hindi: Boeing's 9-abreast 777 design was not built and Boeing has not disclosed the number of seats or the width of the cabin that it had intended to fit its 9-abreast design.
Hindi: Boeing ka yah performance claim, ye keval ek comparison ke darshan

Original English: The gain in unit costs is blunted compared with 10-abreast now in use.
Translated Hindi: The Jetliner is capable of carrying 200 passengers, although Qantas has ordered only 120 of its 220-seat version in its first tranche.
Hindi: एक बारे में वे समानोत्तर ल

Original English: "The reason Boeing are doing this is to cram more seats in to make their plane more competitive with our products," said Kevin Keniston, head of passenger comfort at Europe's Airbus.
Translated Hindi: He added that the planes would be uncomfortable for passengers, leading to higher cancellation rates and lower profits. "It's just a bad idea all round," he said.
Hindi: "Boeing ke liye aisa karne mein samajhdari hai, ki unke paas kai

Original English: On the other hand, analysts say full 10-seat-per-row cabins for existing 777s suggest many passengers are voting for the denser layout, which may go hand in hand with cheaper fares.
Translated Hindi: Boeing will also offer the option of a 9-abreast 777-300ER, which would make it the first airline to offer that cabin layout.
Hindi: अरुण, कई की तलवार और एन

Original English: "Eighteen inches in seat width would be great for passengers, but the reality is that from a business point of the Airbus proposal is driven by the threat of the 777," said cabin interiors expert Mary Kirby, founder and editor of the Runway Girl Network.
Translated Hindi: "From a walk-through perspective, the 777-200ER can fit 330 passengers in a 9-abreast configuration, but the 777-300ER can carry 358 passengers in the same configuration - 28 more than the A330-300."
Hindi: "अ

Original English: Airbus and Boeing do not supply seats but offer a catalogue of suppliers for airlines to choose from.
Translated Hindi: The airlines can have the seats made to their own design and specification to match the interior design of the aircraft.
Hindi: एयरबस एव बफर नह खरीदें खरीदा

Original English: Globe-trotting jet sellers even carry tape measures to check on competing layouts.
Translated Hindi: Aficionados own a range of sizes and shapes. The most distinctive ones are those that have the lip that holds the record in place. These are more expensive and harder to find. Some of the best ones are made by the late Harry and Terry Wypyszinski of New Jersey. They are

Original English: While boasting comfort, all builders also offer jets with high-density layouts for low-cost airlines and regional travel.
Translated Hindi: This can have a significant impact on the comfort of passengers and the number of seats on board. The technology is also used on the largest aircraft to provide comfort to passengers and crew while minimizing weight and fuel consumption.
Hindi: वहाँ अपनाये ज

Original English: Airbus offers a 10-abreast A350 but says it has not yet sold it.
Translated Hindi: The 10-abreast version of the A350 is not in production and is probably not the most popular option in the range.
Hindi: एईआरसी - 10 बाहर के अबेरट हिस

Original English: Until recently, Airbus was stressing the need for more cabin customization by offering wider aisle seats on some of its jets.
Translated Hindi: That may be changing. The European airframer is now developing larger cabins for its narrowbody jets, and it is also working to create a dedicated A320 cabin that can be adapted to any airline’s needs.
Hindi: इसके पहले, एय

Original English: Without the support of the only other maker of large modern jets, experts say its call for a new industry standard is unlikely to fly, but could distract from a wave of 777X sales.
Translated Hindi: Boeing on Saturday unveiled the first 777X, a bigger and more efficient version of its wide-bodied 777 jet. It said it expected to receive 300 orders for the 777X by the end of the Paris Air Show. The 777X will be powered by GE Aviation GE.N or

Original English: New anti-nicotine vaccine could take the pleasure out of smoking
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: नई निगरानी वैक्सीन चुटकुले खून और धुएँ के चलते शर

Original English: Scientists have developed an anti-nicotine vaccine that could take the pleasure out of smoking a cigarette.
Translated Hindi: The vaccine, which contains a small dose of nicotine, is designed to trigger an immune response in the body that helps to attack nicotine and block its effect. The vaccine has been tested
in human trials and preliminary results show that it can be both safe and effective. Researchers believe that it could be a

Original English: A single dose of the vaccine was able to protect mice against nicotine addiction for life.
Translated Hindi: The finding could be a major advance in efforts to prevent relapses in patients who quit smoking.
Hindi: सबको लगाए गए एक लगातार वैक्सीन के स

Original English: Further tests are needed before starting human trials, which would take several years, but Professor Ronald Crystal of Weill Cornell Medical College in New York said the early signs are good.
Translated Hindi: “It could be an answer to an unmet health need in the world,” he said. “It’s a very clever way of attacking a broad range of viruses.”
Hindi: Abhi aur test ki jarurat hai, jinmein humari kuchh samajh mein nah

Original English: "We are very hopeful that this kind of vaccine strategy can finally help the millions of smokers who have tried to stop, exhausting all the methods on the market today, but find their nicotine addiction to be strong enough to overcome these current approaches," Prof Cornell said.
Translated Hindi: "Tobacco use kills 6 million people each year, and there are many more millions addicted to nicotine.”
Hindi: "ham toh thodasa hi jante hain ki aisi vajah se yeh vishay vyast rahega, kyunki y

Original English: The new vaccine contains a harmless virus that has been engineered to carry the genetic information to make anti-nicotine antibodies.
Translated Hindi: These antibodies prevent nicotine from entering the brain. This means that smokers who get the vaccine will not enjoy the effects of nicotine.
Hindi: यह नए वैक्सीन है, जिसमे एक न

Original English: The virus selectively infects liver cells, which then start to make a steady stream of the antibodies.
Translated Hindi: This is why the blood test looks for the presence of antibodies in the blood.
Hindi: वाइरस लवर वायरल के लिए चुका है, जिसके ब

Original English: The antibodies hunt down any nicotine molecules in the bloodstream, neutralising them before they reached the brain, preventing a smoker from getting a nicotine hit.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वायरसे घबराने के लिए अच्छे निदान लगते हैं, और दूसरों

Original English: In tests, vaccinated mice who were subsequently given nicotine continued with their normal activity.
Translated Hindi: However, the nicotine-naive mice stopped moving and became less responsive.
Hindi: Apani ek pariksha men, nikatan ke bachcho ne, doosre pariksha men ge nikatan ke bachcho ko, nikatan ke bachcho ko antivirus ke upariksha

Original English: But mice who had not been given the vaccine "chilled out," say the researchers, a sign that the nicotine had reached their brains.
Translated Hindi: The mice who received the nicotine vaccine, however, kept their tempers. The nicotine vaccine worked best when given to mice who had not received nicotine in the first place (which is how it would be administered in humans), says Kessler-Harris. Giving nicotine to mice who had never had it did

Original English: The experiments are described in the journal Science Translational Medicine.
Translated Hindi: The research is published online in the November 2014 issue.
Hindi: यह मेडिकल विज्ञान से संबंधित अनुभवों के व्य

Original English: Previous tobacco vaccines failed because they contained antibodies.
Translated Hindi: They were not able to neutralize and remove the virus from the body. The current vaccine contains a fragment of the virus that cannot cause an infection. It contains only the viral protein that is harmless and can be produced in large quantities.
English: The new vaccine was created using a gene from the coronavirus

Original English: The jabs had to be given so frequently to keep antibody levels topped up that they proved expensive and impractical.
Translated Hindi: The “new” vaccines proved more effective at preventing disease, but they were too slow in producing immune responses to catch the virus before it spread.
Hindi: विषय पर इस तरह लिखें: (देख

Original English: But the cost of the new vaccine is likely to be far lower, because it turns liver cells into antibody factories.
Translated Hindi: The injection is likely to be smaller and cheaper than the 20 shots of 12 different vaccines needed to protect children from age 2 to 15.
Hindi: नई वैक्सीन की कीमत भी नज

Original English: Prof Crystal said that if a future human vaccine was completely safe it could be given to children before they were tempted to try a cigarette, preventing nicotine addiction.
Translated Hindi: The vaccine would be given alongside the other childhood vaccinations that all children receive.
Hindi:
5. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: आज राज्य बोर्ड का देश में सब

Original English: But more likely it would be used by smokers to quit.
Translated Hindi: Some people are, but it’s a small fraction of them.
Hindi: परन्तु मैं तो यह संभावित है कि यह व्यक्तियों क

Original English: "They will know if they start smoking again, they will receive no pleasure from it due to the nicotine vaccine, and that can help them kick the habit," he said.
Translated Hindi: "At the same time, the vaccine provides protection against other nicotine-related diseases."

Hindi: "वे उन्हें जाने वाले हैं, अगर वे शामिल ह

Original English: British scientists said the results were interesting but warned far more research was needed.
Translated Hindi: "Many more cases of dual infection are needed to give us a good idea of the risks involved," said Dr. John Oxford, a virologist and professor of virology at Queen Mary University of London. "We need to increase our understanding of the whole area of dual infection."
H

Original English: The cause of the death of the tigress was not clear, even after the post-mortem.
Translated Hindi: The tigress was 9 years old and was in good health. The reason for her sudden death could not be ascertained as the post-mortem was carried out after several hours of the death. The report of the post-mortem was released after a day.
Hindi: प्र

Original English: The forest department, giving an evasive answer, said that prima-facie, the tigress seemed to have died a natural death.
Translated Hindi: However, a detailed post mortem report would be received soon. The report would give a clear picture of the death cause, it added.
Hindi: वन विभाग ने एक अनदेखी जवाब

Original English: On Thursday night the forest employees of the Pawalgarh Conservation reserve of the Ramnagar Forest department found a tigress's body near the Khichadi drain.
Translated Hindi: It is believed that the tigress may have been killed by the 2-year old cub of the tigress who was found by the forest department last week.
Hindi: बुधवार रामनगर के पावल

Original English: The tigress's body was intact and no signs of wounds or injury were found on the body.
Translated Hindi: The postmortem report also ruled out the possibility of poisoning or any other cause for her death.
Hindi: तूफान का शरीर अवश्य है और शरीर पर क

Original English: On Friday an autopsy was conducted on the body of the tigress by CTR veterinarian Bharat and Kotabagh veterinarian Hema Rathore in the presence of the Conservator of Forests, Vivek Pandey, the CTR deputy director, Saket Badola, DFO Kahakasha Naseem, and SDO J.S. Karkee.
Translated Hindi: The body of the tigress was found in the Gairal range of the CTR. The veterinarian had ruled out any external injuries on the body and said that the cause of death appeared to be a massive heart attack. The body was handed over to the forest department of the Kumaon

Original English: According to sources, during the autopsy, the internal organs of the tigress were reported to be damaged.
Translated Hindi: The cause of death has not been determined yet, but the experts suspect it to be a case of poisoning. The post-mortem report is expected by the end of today.
Hindi: आज । बांध अधिकारी

Original English: Because of this the actual cause of death of the tigress was not known.
Translated Hindi: The tigress died on the boundary line of Satkosia Tiger Reserve and Angul Forest Division.
Hindi: Yeh kehne ki kayi galatfahmiyaan ho sakti hain. Kisi bhi tarah ka khatahun ka saam

Original English: Department officials are giving evasive answers about the death of the tigress.
Translated Hindi: It is unclear if the animal was poisoned with cyanide, or whether it died of natural causes. The government needs to tell the public the truth about the death of the tigress so that people know what is going on.
Hindi: परिवर्तन व

Original English: However, to test for the presence of poison, the internal organs have been sent to IVRI Barelli for a toxicology test.
Translated Hindi: These organs have since been handed over to the police for any further investigation required. The post-mortem report is awaited.
Hindi:
Arth: Par iska tika pahunchaane ke liye, pariksha ke liye aahar kshetre ke shareer ko

Original English: Vivek Pandey, the Conservator of Forest Western Circle, said that the tigress's death could be considered as natural.
Translated Hindi: He said that all the forest officers are in the field and the entire team is working on the spot.
Hindi: विवेक पांडे, वेस्टर्न सीरक्यूवर्ड क

Original English: There were no traces of poison in the body.
Translated Hindi: The post-mortem report is ready. The report shall be handed over to the police as soon as possible. I will be performing the last rites of the body. We should proceed with the last rites as soon as possible.
Hindi: वहाँ कोई रो

Original English: However, a search of the surrounding areas was carried out and the viscera were sent to be tested for the presence of poison.
Translated Hindi: He was also sent to hospital for treatment. The doctor who attended on him found no evidence of poisoning and therefore no further action was taken.
Hindi: पलग नह लगभग तरगण नदर क

Original English: Tripodi denies being influenced by Obeid
Translated Hindi: in decision to award contracts to behalf of public body.
Hindi: Tripodi denies being influenced by Obeid in decision to award contracts to behalf of public body.
- Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: There are 17 million Australians and 1 billion Indians
Hindi

Original English: Former NSW Labor minister Joe Tripodi will be investigated by the state's corruption watchdog.
Translated Hindi: Tripodi will be investigated following evidence he gave to a corruption inquiry, which he claims was taken out of context.
Hindi: न्यूइॉर्लीया जॉन ट्रिपोडी को

Original English: Former NSW minister Joe Tripodi has denied changing maritime leases policy at the request of his political mentor Eddie Obeid, who had hidden interests in three properties on government-controlled land.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: एसएमआई के पूर्व सचिव जो ट्रिपोडी ने पर्यटन के राज्य पुर

Original English: The Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) on Friday widened its inquiry into whether Mr Obeid lobbied several state ministers to have leases at Circular Quay, where the Obeids owned two restaurants and a cafe, renewed without going to tender after their expiration in August 2005.
Translated Hindi: A source said an ICAC investigator had contacted a minister and asked if he had been lobbied by Mr Obeid before deciding to recommend the leases be renewed, and for a further 10 years. The minister had been told to expect a call from ICAC. The source said there was

Original English: It's now investigating allegations Mr Tripodi knew of Mr Obeid's secret interest in the properties, after evidence given by Mr Tripodi's former deputy chief of staff, Lynne Ashpole, on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह अब अल्लाद में अपनी आत्मनिर्भर खाता के बारे में अल्लाद क

Original English: During years of discussions starting in 2005 the government had been pushing for the leases to go to public tender.
Translated Hindi: The state government, however, maintained a position that the leases should be granted on “single window” basis.
Hindi: राजनैतिक संघ कानूनी देशभर में बिज

Original English: The lessees were against this and also wanted longer terms.
Translated Hindi: They said that the leases should be re-drafted in such a way that the leases were not for 99 years but for 99 years less a day. That would be more convenient.
Hindi: जिस दौरान जनन न ब

Original English: In 2009 leases for the Circular Quay enterprises, which earned the Obeids about $2.5 million annually, were renewed without going to public tender.
Translated Hindi: A former Labor Minister for Finance who now owns the lease has been charged with corruption. A former employee of the Labor Party also owns the lease and was charged with corruption. The Labor Party Minister in charge of the Circular Quay lease was charged with corruption. The Labor Party Minister who appointed a person to

Original English: Mr Tripodi, who was ports minister from February 2006 until November 2009, was initially in favour of public tenders.
Translated Hindi: But the Port of Melbourne Corporation (PMPC) decided the tender process would not be in the best interest of the state. They said the process would be too costly and time-consuming.
Hindi: बाकी महत्वपूर्ण इत

Original English: But he denied the changes were made at the request of Mr Obeid, who Mr Tripodi acknowledged was urging a shift in government lease policy.
Translated Hindi: But the government refused to release a version of the document in its possession that included the deletions, saying it was confidential.
Hindi: Par vo apnapanon ko deny kar raha tha jo Mr Obeid ke request par banaye gaye the, jo Mr Tripodi bhi

Original English: A phone transcript tabled in ICAC showed calls in August and September 2007 between Mr Obeid, Mr Tripodi and Steve Dunn, a senior bureaucrat who had come into the ports ministry after working under Mr Obeid in the fisheries department.
Translated Hindi: The transcript shows that Mr Dunn was looking for "a $30,000 gift" for Mr Obeid. The official tells Mr Tripodi, "One of the things that I need you to do, that we need to make sure that we do properly, is that we need to get a

Original English: "Was the matter being discussed in the course of these telephone conversations the development of the commercial lease policy," Assistant Commissioner Anthony Whealy asked Mr Tripodi.
Translated Hindi: "It was, sir," Mr Tripodi replied. "Yes" "Yes, it was." Mr Tripodi said. "Yes, sir." Mr Whealy asked Mr Tripodi if the toppling of the statute was a matter being discussed in those conversations. "Yes, sir," Mr Trip

Original English: "No," Mr Tripodi replied.
Translated Hindi: "But I have an idea to make the trip more interesting. Have you ever been to the library?"
Hindi: किसी को नहीं पता मैं कोई बहुत बड़ा च

Original English: I can't remember what was discussed but it definitely wasn't that.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मैंने यह नहीं सोचा कि वह इस व्यक्ति के बारे में बात हुई थी ल

Original English: Definitely not between myself and Mr Obeid.
Translated Hindi: It’s between myself and Mr Obeid, the former member for Drummoyne, who is the one who has been caught out. He’s the one who has been caught out, misrepresenting, lying to the people of New South Wales and misleading the Parliament. He’s the one

Original English: Israeli warplanes attack target inside Syria, official says
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Israil ke warplanes syria k target per attack karne ki khabar aai hai, official ke mutabiq

English: Israel strikes targets in Syria, official says
Hindi: Israel strike karta hai syria ki target, official ke mutabiq

Original English: Israeli warplanes struck a target inside the Syrian port city of Latakia Thursday night, a senior administration official confirms to Fox News.
Translated Hindi: The official said the strike was authorized by President Obama and was intended to slow the development of Syria’s chemical weapons program. U.S. intelligence officials said they believe the strike hit a convoy carrying Russian-made SA-17 anti-aircraft missiles.
Hindi: अश्लील स

Original English: The official did not specify what the target was, but said there was at least one.
Translated Hindi: However, it was unclear whether that was a person or a vehicle. The official also said that the target was struck, but that there had been no word of casualties.
Hindi: का सारे साथ पर और जो ली तो

Original English: The Associated Press reports the target was Russian-made SA-125 missiles.
Translated Hindi: It was not clear whether the missiles were armed. The SA-125 missiles have a range of 20 miles and are capable of piercing 4 inches of steel armor.
Hindi: Associated Press says the target was a Russian-made SA-125 missile. It was not clear whether the missile was armed

Original English: At least twice earlier this year Israel launched airstrikes on shipments of missiles inside Syria.
Translated Hindi: US officials have told NBC News that Israel has carried out at least 100 attacks inside Syria since the beginning of the civil war, most aimed at thwarting what they believe is an Iranian effort to supply advanced weaponry to Hezbollah, the militant group that is backed by Tehran. Senior officials in Israel say they

Original English: Foreign workers on 457 visas could undergo "genuineness" test
Translated Hindi: . The 457 visa is a temporary work visa for skilled workers.
Hindi: भारत में वन्यजन्य कर्मचारियों के लिए "सहीत" प

Original English: A "genuineness" test for foreign workers on 457 visas is being considered by the government as it contemplates expanding a crackdown.
Translated Hindi: Under the proposal, foreign workers who have been in the country for two years would have to pass a test to ensure they are a genuine employee. The move is a response to concerns that some employers are taking advantage of the 457 visa program to use cheap foreign workers to displace Australians.
Hindi

Original English: The test, if adopted, would be applied through a criteria aimed at preventing 457s being used to fill unskilled positions or as a back door way to move family and friends to Australia.
Translated Hindi: The Government has also proposed to tighten the definition of what constitutes a skilled position.
Hindi: जि या टे स्ट, जि या विशेषज्ञ जानकारी के अ

Original English: A government discussion paper was released today as former Labor MP Maxine McKew slammed the government's rhetoric about foreign workers, saying it could offend Australia's neighbours.
Translated Hindi: Ms McKew said the government needed to be more careful about the way it talked about Chinese workers, saying the rhetoric was becoming more inflammatory. "I think the government needs to be very careful about the way it speaks about these matters, because if you go back to the Cold War, the words '

Original English: "Loud declarations about 'foreigners getting to the back of the queue' and 'Aussie jobs first' are a very unpleasant throwback to a time when unions demanded a protected labor market," she told the Australia India Institute today.
Translated Hindi: "They were wrong then and they are wrong now." Hindi: "भारतीय आईने ने देश के बाहर के कर्तव्य और यात्र

Original English: Historically, that meant it was white labour that had to be protected - and if some in the region saw echoes of that historic artifact, I wouldn't be surprised.
Translated Hindi: But I don't think it's not possible to be cognisant of what the past meant, and still argue that we need to do what's right for today.

Hindi: वह बात उस समय की है कि य

Original English: The discussion paper outlines 12 measures that were previously considered by former Immigration Minister Chris Bowen.
Translated Hindi: The measures are aimed at protecting the interests of Australian workers and ensuring that visas are used as intended.
Hindi: विषयक पत्र इस पत्र के माध्यम से चीफ इम्ग्र

Original English: Immigration Minister Brendan O'Connor, who was yesterday in Sri Lanka where he is meeting officials about people smuggling, has implemented five of the recommended changes with the remainder under consideration.
Translated Hindi: The changes include the appointment of an expert panel to advise on detention centre and offshore processing policy, and a commitment to the principle that children should not be detained. A taskforce of lawyers, health and community services groups, and human rights bodies will also be set up to ensure the best protection and care

Original English: If the "genuineness" criteria was adopted a visa applicant could be scrutinised about "whether the nomination is genuine in circumstances where the nominee is a relation or personal associate of an owner or relevant person of the sponsoring business."
Translated Hindi: This is to ensure that the nomination is not being made as part of a scheme or arrangement to provide a sham nomination. The Department may also conduct any further investigation in order to ensure that the nomination is genuine.
Hindi: कभी भी अनुभव

Original English: Businesses could also be required to account for the number of 457 visa holders after previously businesses who had intended to sponsor a small number of workers then employed hundreds.
Translated Hindi: The changes are expected to be made in the next couple of weeks and will also apply to 457 visa holders. The English to Hindi translation is as follows: Hindi: व्यापारी भी अपने भागीदार

Original English: Meanwhile, a 35-year-old Sri Lankan asylum seeker died of a suspected heart attack after arriving on an asylum boat at Christmas Island this week.
Translated Hindi: The man was one of 100 Sri Lankan asylum seekers who arrived on Christmas Island on Sunday. He was taken to Christmas Island’s Christmas Island Hospital on Tuesday and later transferred to the detention centre, where he died at 11am on Wednesday. His death is the latest in a string of asylum

Original English: The man's distraught nine-year-old son travelled to Australia with him and has been comforted since the death of his father on Wednesday by an adult cousin who was also on the vessel.
Translated Hindi: The cousin is the first relative to arrive from Nigeria.
Hindi: यह मान बेटे के नाम की छात्र जिस के 9 साल के उम्र के थे

Original English: Australian authorities rushed the man to Christmas Island Hospital, where he died.
Translated Hindi: The woman was admitted to the hospital with minor injuries. The driver of the car, a 50-year-old woman, was not injured. She was taken into custody and charged with negligent driving causing death. The accident has shocked many in the community.
Hindi: अस्पत

Original English: A study aiming to increase the benefits to Scotland of the HS2 rail project has been announced by the UK government.
Translated Hindi: The review is intended to help increase the number of opportunities for Scottish businesses and to ensure that the project provides value for money for the UK taxpayer. It will also seek to maximise the economic benefits for Scotland and ensure that projects such as HS2 support the UK’s industrial strategy.
Hindi:

Original English: The work by HS2 Ltd suggests high-speed services to Scotland and the north of England will start as soon as Phase One opens in 2026.
Translated Hindi: It is not yet clear how much of the £42 billion price tag will be spent in Scotland, but a “pilot” HS2 line from London to Birmingham, which starts construction next year, is expected to be finished by 2028.
Hindi: HS2 Ltd ने क

Original English: Transport minister Baroness Kramer said the project would "bring the UK together."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: परिवहन मंत्री बारोना क्रेमर ने यह निष्पक्ष योजना को "विश्व भर क

Original English: Scottish transport minister Keith Brown said he was "excited" to work with the UK government on the plan.
Translated Hindi: He said:
Hindi: Edinburgh के आयुष्मान minister Keith Brown बात की कि वह एक भारतीय संसद से यूके government क

Original English: Phase One will consist of a new high speed rail line between London and the West Midlands.
Translated Hindi: It will provide a new two-way high speed service between London and Birmingham, with trains reaching speeds of up to 250mph. It will also link up with existing high speed lines to the North of England and Scotland, and will connect with the new East West rail line between Bedford and Cambridge. Phase

Original English: When Phase Two is completed, lines will run to Manchester and Leeds.
Translated Hindi: Phase Three will see the line extended to Sheffield and east to Lincoln. The link from the HS2 line to the East Coast Main Line will provide a direct service between London and Edinburgh in 2 hours and 15 minutes.
Hindi: अब तक के तर

Original English: In June the government revised the estimated cost of building the high-speed link between London and the North of England from £32.7bn to £42.6bn.
Translated Hindi: The increase is due to the fact that the proposed line will now run through London (as opposed to underneath it) and not be buried under the sea, which will add to costs.
Hindi:
जून में सरकार ने लं

Original English: The UK government, which has been holding talks with Transport Scotland, has instructed HS2 Ltd to look at further rail capacity and journey time improvements for northern England and Scotland.
Translated Hindi: The company has been told to consider improved rail services between London and Leeds, Manchester, Sheffield and Newcastle as well as between Glasgow and Aberdeen.
Hindi: PREM UK ka vikas karyakarta jo ki Transport Scotland ko sampanna karte hain, HS2 Ltd ko transport

Original English: This is to include the possibility of eventual journey times from Glasgow and Edinburgh to London of three hours or less.
Translated Hindi: It is also to include the possibility of a high-speed, high-frequency train service between Glasgow and Edinburgh, with intermediate stops at Glasgow Airport, Glasgow South Western, Glasgow Central, Glasgow Queen Street High Level, Glasgow Queen Street Low Level, Falkirk, Stirling, Alloa, Dunferml

Original English: Baroness Kramer said: "Our goal for HS2 is for a truly national network that will bring the UK and its cities closer together."
Translated Hindi: The Minister for Transport, the hon. Member for Kingston and Surbiton, said: "HS2 will provide a much-needed boost to the economy of the West Midlands." Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon said: "We are determined to deliver a world-class railway network that supports the economy." Lord Ahmad of

Original English: We are driving forward HS2 because the benefits it will bring are huge.
Translated Hindi: It will create thousands of jobs, better access to a growing city, and help to reduce the pressure on London. The project is also essential for the growth of the Midlands and North of England. If we want to keep the UK competitive we must invest in our transport infrastructure. A modern, fast,

Original English: Without it we face a crisis in capacity on our rail network.
Translated Hindi: We lose the opportunity to grow the economy, and our ability to compete internationally for business and jobs. We must act now.
Hindi: Agar hamne iske upar kuch nahin kiya, toh hamara railway network par capacity crisis hone ka khatra hai. Hum

Original English: But it is also about connectivity, across the UK 18 cities including Glasgow and Edinburgh will be better connected because of HS2.
Translated Hindi: Our cities are the backbone of our economy and it is crucial that we invest in them to ensure they can grow and prosper. We have been able to do this because of the decisions we have made, to back HS2, to back our cities and to back the North.
Hindi: Par y

Original English: Scottish Secretary Alistair Carmichael added: "Today's announcement is good news for Scotland."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अमेरीका के आधिकारिक रूप से स्कॉटलैंड के संयुक्त राज्य के

Original English: For the Scottish government, Keith Brown called on Mr Carmichael to "unequivocally" back Scotland's inclusion in the HS2 network.
Translated Hindi: "The Scottish government believes the proposed rail line will be of real benefit to Scotland, delivering improved connectivity, more seats and faster journey times. The benefits will be increased if HS2 is extended to Scotland, and if the line is routed through Scotland in a manner which maximises the potential benefits for Scottish

Original English: Mr Brown said: "High speed rail has the potential to bring huge economic benefits to Scotland, but also adds Scotland's economic weight to the overall case for high speed rail across Britain."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Mr Brown said: "Rapid ferrous aur pramanik prastavon se atyant kshamta pradan karta hai Scotland, parantu itihasik kshamta bhi pradan karta hai Britain ke saath yah hua."

Original English: So we are excited to work in partnership with the UK Government to examine options for bringing high speed rail to Scotland, creating benefit for all and complementing the Glasgow-Edinburgh line which the Scottish Government is already planning.
Translated Hindi: This partnership approach and the close work we have had with the UK Government on the Borders Railway clearly sets the scene for further discussion on Scotland’s railway future. The UK Government has pledged £100 billion for infrastructure investment, including significant rail investment, over the next 10 years. The Scottish Government has also

Original English: I look forward to reviewing the report of the investigation with UK ministers next year and together decide on the next steps.
Translated Hindi: The Human Rights Council should make it clear to the Government of India that it must improve human rights situation in J-K and Ladakh.
Hindi: मेरे तरफ से सरकार के अधिकारियों

Original English: Aircraft electronic device rules to stay in force in Australia for now
Translated Hindi: Hindi: बैक अस कैय आख रे क य श क र त श क र व क ल ब र य ब द ल ग र

Original English: Australian airline passengers will need to continue turning off their tablets and smart phones during take-off and landing despite moves in the US to loosen regulations covering the devices.
Translated Hindi: The US Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) is considering allowing the use of devices during take-off and landing if they are in airplane mode. But the Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) has told the ABC that the current rules are based on advice from the US Federal Aviation Administration, which maintains

Original English: The US Federal Aviation Administration has left the way open for American carriers to change their procedures so that passengers will be able to read e-books, watch videos or play games on their devices during critical phases of flight provided they remain in "airplane" mode.
Translated Hindi: The move comes as part of a broader review of the FAA's regulations in the post-9/11 world.
Hindi: अमेरिकी एयर फेअर्स एग्जीकू एफ

Original English: Passengers can already do this during the bulk of a flight but many people find it annoying to be unable to access their e-books during take-offs and landings.
Translated Hindi: The new regulation will allow passengers to have access to their electronic devices, but not their mobile phones, for the entire duration of the flight.
Hindi: उत्तर की लोगों को इस से पहले ऐस

Original English: Australian carriers are looking at the decision, which requires US carriers to undertake a massive amount of work to meet the requirements, but have indicated they have no immediate plans to change their procedures.
Translated Hindi: The US Civil Aviation Authority (FAA) has been sent a copy of the court decision to consider how to implement the latest requirements.
Hindi: “Austrelia ke Anej Carrier ke Baare me is decision ke baare me suniye, jo US Carrier ke Liye

Original English: The Civil Aviation Safety Authority also said it was looking at the announcement but emphasised that restrictions on the use of electronic devices in critical phases of flight were still in place in Australia.
Translated Hindi: India is the only country that has banned the use of electronic devices on aircraft on domestic and international flights in the Indian airspace. This prevents passengers from using devices such as mobile phones, laptops, tablets and e-readers.
Hindi: Civil Aviation Safety Authority ne bhi anumanit kiya hai

Original English: "CASA currently has no specific regulations governing the use of electronic devices in aircraft," it said " The issue is covered by regulations which require aircraft operators to ensure safety is maintained at all times and passengers to comply with the safety instructions given by crew members."
Translated Hindi: "Currently, there is no proposal to make any changes to the regulations."
Hindi: "CASA विनिर्माण के लिए ऑयल एयरप्लेनें के लिए

Original English: Virgin, which has already been talking to CASA about extending the use its in-flight wi-fi entertainment system, was amenable to a change but said it would take its lead from the regulator.
Translated Hindi: Flight testing of the system, which uses satellite technology to bring broadband internet to passengers, is due to begin this month, with its introduction on Virgin's new fleet of Boeing 737-800 aircraft due next year. The airline is keen to offer a broadband service on its Trans-Tasman routes,

Original English: "We would welcome a review by CASA into allowing the use of electronic devices because we really do think it will improve the customer experience now that we have (wireless in-flight entertainment) on our planes," a spokesman said.
Translated Hindi: "So we're going to work with the regulator to see whether we can get some kind of approval."
Hindi: हमें केशस एस एस अ र थ क अ र म म लन क ल ए

Original English: Qantas said it would stick with the current rules for now.
Translated Hindi: “We’re committed to ensuring that our aircraft are full so the best way to do that is to give our customers the opportunity to change their travel dates for free,” a spokesman said.
Hindi: Qantas ने कहा कि उसके अब क

Original English: "Our current policy is that electronic devices cannot be used during take-off and landing and we have no immediate plans to change that," it said.
Translated Hindi: The airline said a seat-to-seat Wi-Fi service is available on some flights to allow passengers to access the internet on their personal devices.
Hindi: हमारे अगले निश्चित नियम अगले

Original English: The FAA ruling applies to American airlines.
Translated Hindi: The requirement for airlines to comply with them has been in place since spring 2008. The new rules take effect Jan. 1. The FAA estimates that 11,900 flights to or from the United States would be affected. The ban does not apply to U.S. airlines. The rules

Original English: However, we are always interested in regulatory developments that could benefit passengers and we will certainly be taking a close look at the FAA's decision and the reasons behind it.
Translated Hindi: The European Commission is set to adopt a new proposal for aircraft cabins that will require more space for passengers' carry-on baggage, to help address the confusion at airports that has arisen in the wake of the new security measures.
Hindi: वहाँ भी, पास

Original English: For US carriers, the impact of the ruling will vary from airline to airline and will depend on the age of their fleet.
Translated Hindi: A smaller, older carrier such as Allegiant Air or Spirit Airlines will probably not be affected, while a larger, more modern carrier such as United will have to absorb the costs.
Hindi: के मामले में ये फरमाये

Original English: Carriers will need to prove their planes can tolerate radio interference from mobile devices as well as revise manuals, training materials, carry-on baggage programs and passenger briefings.
Translated Hindi: Regulators may also need to change their rules.
Hindi: वाहनों की जांच करने के लिए, मोबाइल डिवाइसों के जो

Original English: "Once an airline verifies the tolerance of its fleet, it can allow passengers to use handheld, lightweight electronic devices such as tablets, e-readers, and smartphones-at all altitudes," the FAA said.
Translated Hindi: "The change was made based on extensive research, and it reflects the FAA's ongoing commitment to safety and innovation."
Hindi: "लगभग सभी विमान हेतु मूल्यांकन की

Original English: In rare instances of low visibility, the crew will instruct passengers to turn off their devices during landing.
Translated Hindi: We thank you for your cooperation.
Hindi: Chhoti si mehsoos me banae hue aakraman mein, crew aapko landing ke samay aapke device paron se band karne ki sahmati denge. Ham aapka sa

Original English: The group also recommended that heavier devices should be safely stowed under seats or in overhead bins during take-off and landing.
Translated Hindi: The group also recommended that heavier devices should be safely stowed under seats or in overhead bins during take-off and landing. Hindi: ग्रुप ने अथर्विक फैसला करना हुआ थ

Original English: Pawnbrokers shine in Singapore as middle class feel the pinch
Translated Hindi: Hindi: आधुनिक ग्राहकों के लिए, पवनब्रोकर परिसरों में चमक, सिंगापु

Original English: At a pawnshop in Bendemeer shopping centre in Singapore, Janani Amirthalinga is swapping a gold bangle, ring and pair of earrings to pay her daughters" school fees.
Translated Hindi: Her mother-in-law and sister-in-law, who live in India, have given her the gold ornaments to sell.
Hindi: बेनदीवर सुपर मर्केट में एक पावन शॉ

Original English: "My husband and I have just bought a house so all my money's stuck there," Mrs Amirthalinga says.
Translated Hindi: "I think I'll have to do some part-time work to help out."
Hindi: "Meri pati aur main abhi ghar kharida hai so sabse zyada meri saari paise wahan stukk hain, "Amirthalinga ji

Original English: Even though she earns S$3,000 ($2,400) a month as an administrator and her husband works as well, the monthly family income is insufficient, she says.
Translated Hindi: She has been struggling for years to provide his children with a better future, but it has not been easy. She has taken out loans, but to no avail. “I have had to sell my jewellery to pay for them,” she says. “I am now left with nothing.” The couple has

Original English: Indeed, such is demand across parts of southeast Asia - where household debt is rising - that ValueMax, where she is carrying out her transaction, this week became the third pawnshop to list on the Singapore stock exchange.
Translated Hindi: This is a line from an article which has the headline “Singapore pawnshop raises $60 million in IPO”.
Hindi: यह एक लाइन एक लेख में व्यक्त किया ग

Original English: Pawning jewellery is not merely a fast way to land cash - S$1,300 in Ms Amirthalinga's case - but almost as cheap as unsecured bank loans.
Translated Hindi: At S$2.48 for every S$100 pawned, Ms Amirtha's interest rate was lower than the S$3.28 charge for a S$1,000 loan from a bank for a year.
Hindi: चालू हुए

Original English: Typically pawnbrokers in Singapore charge an effective annual percentage rate of 17 per cent, just above the 15.4 per cent offered at United Overseas Bank, a local lender with a branch in the same shopping centre.
Translated Hindi: Leandro and his wife, who earns about $1,600 a month, were approved for a loan of $5,000 at a rate of 15.5 per cent. He says he will use the cash to renovate the new flat they bought last year. “It’s good to

Original English: However, pawnbrokers have the advantage of not requiring credit checks or proof of salary, and can arrange loans faster than banks.
Translated Hindi: They are licensed by the state, and must keep records of all transactions for five years. They also have the right to refuse a loan and to seize any property offered as collateral for a loan. Pawn loans must be repaid within a maximum of one year. If the loan is not repaid,

Original English: Hence millions of people across the region are turning to pawnshops as families feel the squeeze from rising living costs and ballooning household and consumer debt.
Translated Hindi: Pawnshops are one of the fastest growing segments of the pawn broking industry. English: The advantage of pawnbroking is that pawnbrokers don’t assess the quality or market value of the item that is pawned. The value of the item is based on demand and supply of money and the

Original English: After five years of robust growth since the global financial crisis, and cheap credit fuelled by loose monetary policy in advanced economies, lower- and middle-income families are turning to pawn shops to make up the difference as their economies slow.
Translated Hindi: Starting in 2010, pawn shops have grown from an estimated 7,000 to more than 16,000 in 2018, with most of this growth coming outside of North America and Europe.
Hindi: “Dharmik parivartan ki sahayata ke lie

Original English: This week Standard & Poor's, the rating agency, cited increasing household leverage, mainly from rising mortgages, as a risk factor for Asian banks" creditworthiness.
Translated Hindi: Although the agency's assessment of assets and loan quality in the region was generally positive, it warned that the underlying economic slowdown and the higher interest rates could put pressure on banks' profits.
Hindi: यह सप्ताह स्टैंडर्ड

Original English: It said that Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore had the highest household debt to gross domestic product ratios in Asia.
Translated Hindi: It said that Malaysia was ranked number one in the region and was followed by Thailand and Singapore. The report said that household debt in Malaysia has risen from 83.1 percent to 86.9 percent of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2017 from the fourth quarter of 201

Original English: Malaysia topped the list at 80 per cent of GDP, up from 60 per cent in 2008.
Translated Hindi: The Philippines and Vietnam both saw their economies expand by more than 6 per cent.
Malaysia: मले एसि लाबिया आर्क पहल दरुश 80 पर स्थायी कर

Original English: Economists are also worried about high levels of consumer debt in Thailand, which this week narrowly emerged from technical recession.
Translated Hindi: The economy grew by 0.3 per cent in the fourth quarter of last year, but still contracted by 0.1 per cent in 2008 due to the global financial crisis.
Hindi: उछाले की लगी जो क

Original English: On Thursday, data showed continued export weakness, and a softening in consumer demand.
Translated Hindi: The core inflation rate rose to 1.7% in October, but remained below the RBA’s target band of 2-3%. The trade balance showed a fall in exports and a rise in imports. The trade surplus narrowed to AUD 1.86 billion from AUD 2.14

Original English: "Bottom line is that with costs rising, people in the middle to lower end [of the income scale] will be looking to supplement their income wherever they can," says Song Seng Wun, economist at CIMB, a Malaysian bank.
Translated Hindi: "Many of them will be looking to get into the export business. That is the only way to create jobs." Hindi: "Bottom line is that with costs rising, people in the middle to lower end [of the income scale] will be looking to supplement their income wherever they can," says Song

Original English: Historically high prices for gold in the past two years have added to the rush to pawn personal belongings, as people take the opportunity to cash in the value of their family jewellery.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: गोल्ड मुद्राधिकारी के इस परिणाम के माध्यम से अपना परिवार ज्वेल

Original English: In Singapore, about 70 per cent of items pawned at the city-state's 200 pawn outlets are gold.
Translated Hindi: Gold has

Original English: "People are saying "the gold price looks good, let's pawn grandma's gold chain and get it back next month,"" says Mr Song.
Translated Hindi: "But this is not the right time to invest in gold, because the currency is strong."
Hindi: "Lekin aaj ka samay nahi hai investment karne ke liye, kyunki currency strong hai" Mr Song kehta hai.
Thank you.

1 Answer

Original English: In Thailand the largest pawnshop operator, EasyMoney, has seen an up to 20 per cent rise in the number of customers using its outlets in recent months.
Translated Hindi: Customers have been flocking into the shops to pawn their items as they feel the pinch of the current economic downturn. James Lee, CEO of EasyMoney, said they would extend more credit to customers in the coming months. The company has set up 12 branches at shopping centres and other locations in Bangkok

Original English: Such is the growth in the pawn business that ValueMax, operator of the outlet at Bendemeer and of 15 others like it in Singapore, plans to expand not only in neighbouring Malaysia - where it has four shops - but outside Asia too, says Yeah Lee Ching, ValueMax's executive director.
Translated Hindi: She admits some customers are in debt, but they still pay their loans. She says ValueMax is also expanding beyond providing basic loans to offering overdrafts and loans with fixed repayment terms.
Hindi: चकेय बाज़ार में व

Original English: The company will fund that by using 60 per cent of S$66m it raised this week in a listing on the Singapore stock exchange.
Translated Hindi: The rest of the capital will come from a new tranche of private equity funding, which is to be closed in January.
Hindi: संपत्ति में संस्थान द्वारा इसका ईम

Original English: While some discount lenders have come under fire for high interest rates, Ms Yeah says that not only does pawning offer cheaper rates than other lenders, it also does not add directly to debt.
Translated Hindi: "Borrowing money is good if you can repay it and if not, it is bad. Pawning, however, is good because you can always repay it. It is good to have money when you have nothing," she said.
Hindi: कुछ बेच

Original English: "Customers are mortgaging items that they already own, and monetising personal assets does not increase household debt," she says.
Translated Hindi: "It's a market that is redefining the concept of security. It's not just about money anymore."
Hindi: "Kamai se loan lena mainfi bhi nahin hai, jitna ki aap logon ke pass kamana hai."
Do you know the meaning

Original English: There's an increased social acceptance of pawnbroking as a means to secure short term, secured financing.
Translated Hindi: This has driven the penetration of secured loan products across the globe to an all time high.
Hindi: शासन अनुप्रयोग करता है पैँव्हओ बंद

Original English: Nor are the types of people who use pawnbrokers only the financially stretched.
Translated Hindi: Many of the people who use pawnshops are middleclass working people, people who have to work hard to make ends meet. They use pawnshops as a way of getting short-term loans or of getting money to tide them over until pay day.
Hindi: यह भी का

Original English: Wealthy people in Singapore also use ValueMax outlets, pawning gold bars or Rolex watches, which can command up to 60 per cent of their purchase price in cash.
Translated Hindi: When the items are sold abroad, the buyer sets the price. ValueMax says it has not been able to match that rate.
Hindi: सिंगापुर में सपोर्टेड लोगो में प

Original English: We see customers from all walks of life.
Translated Hindi: Our customers include the very wealthy, the poor, the young, the middle aged, and the old. We have customers who visit us from all over the world, from the north to the south and from the east to the west. We have had customers who have come a long way to see us

Original English: "They include wealthy individuals who need to borrow short term for business ventures or investments, or small businesses with a need to tide over their cash flow needs," says Ms Yeah.
Translated Hindi: "The interest rates are usually quite attractive, and the interest is collected at the end of the loan period."
Translation: "Unke liye yeh un logo ke liye hain jo apne business ke liye ya kisi investment ke liye short term borrow karte hain aur

Original English: Sometimes they just need the money very quickly.
Translated Hindi: It is not easy for them to get a loan and they may not have enough assets to get a loan
Hindi: उन्हें लाभान्वित करने के लिए राशन आत

Original English: Nita Ambani, the wife of India's most important businessman Mukesh Ambani, is celebrating her 50th birthday on November 1, 2013.
Translated Hindi: Nita Ambani is an Indian entrepreneur, philanthropist and the founder and chairperson of the Reliance Foundation. She is the wife of Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries Limited and the daughter of Rajkot-based Dhirubhai Ambani and Kokil

Original English: Nita is celebrating her birthday in Jodhpur and not in Mumbai.
Translated Hindi: She is having a birthday party in Jodhpur. She is having a birthday party with her friends in Jodhpur. She is going to have a birthday party with her friends in Jodhpur. She is going to have a birthday party in Jodhpur with her friends

Original English: She has organized a big party to mark the occasion.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वह इस दिन के लिए एक बड़ा अभिलाषा को तैयार कर रही है।
English

Original English: Many big Bollywood stars have arrived in Jodhpur to the attend the party. In the late evening of October 31st many big stars were seen catching a flight to Jodhpur from Mumbai Airport.
Translated Hindi: Priyanka Chopra, Arjun Kapoor, and Karan Johar arrived at the airport in a private jet and left for Jodhpur. Ranveer Singh was not seen at the airport, but Janhvi Kapoor was spotted at the airport. Janhvi arrived from Jod

Original English: Among these stars were Karisma Kapoor, Geeta Basra, Vinod Khanna and his wife Kavita Khanna, Abhishek Kapoor, Anu Malik, Shekhar Kapoor, Raj Kumar Hirani, Rakesh Om Prakash Mehra, Rahul Bose, etc.
Translated Hindi: They all were present at the launch of the book, “The Last Chronicle of Akbar and Birbal.” Hindi: मेरे देश की सभी अलग-अलग दिशाओं के श

Original English: You can imagine, when such big names were invited, how big the party was.
Translated Hindi: It must have been a grand party. The most important people of the country were invited. All the important people of the country were invited.
Hindi: तो इस तरह जब देश के अनेक विश

Original English: $325m rescue package for Tassie health
Translated Hindi: Hindi: $325m rescue package for Tassie health
Note: If you are unable to translate any of the questions, please leave them blank.
Each question is worth 10 points. The total marks are 300. The test will be marked out of 100. You will

Original English: The Federal Government insists a $325 million rescue package for Tasmania's ailing health system has tough conditions attached that will ensure the State Government can't waste the funds.
Translated Hindi: The Federal Government is prepared to match the State Government's $325 million injection. The State Opposition has slammed the deal, saying it won't go far enough to fix Tasmania's ailing health system. The Federal Government says conditions will be attached to ensure Tasmania spends the money on the health system. The

Original English: Federal Health Minister Tanya Plibersek has announced the Commonwealth is taking "urgent action" to head off a crisis caused by the island state's aging population, higher rates of chronic disease and system constraints.
Translated Hindi: The Australian Medical Association (AMA) is calling for an all-party committee to be set up to review the health system, but the state government has already established a similar committee. Ms Plibersek has announced the Commonwealth has signed an agreement with the Tasmanian government to provide an extra $5 million

Original English: The funding, over four years, was decided after government consultations with Tasmanian independent MP Andrew Wilkie.
Translated Hindi: The funding is to assist the states and territories in implementing the national plan for reducing gambling harm.
Hindi: इस नागरीक आवाज़ के लिए वर्षों की विश

Original English: "The Government has come up with an emergency rescue package we believe will address the unique challenges faced by the state," Ms Plibersek said today.
Translated Hindi: "This will help the government address the needs of the tourism sector, which has been hit the hardest by the pandemic, and will help to support the health and wellbeing of some of the state's most vulnerable citizens." Hindi: ""हमारी सरकार एक

Original English: The $325 million package includes a $31 million elective surgery blitz.
Translated Hindi: All elective surgery will be prioritised in accordance with clinical need. This package is one of a number of measures that is helping to ease pressure on our hospitals and emergency departments. The Victorian Government is investing $11.3 billion in hospitals to build more than 1 200 new beds and 1

Original English: An additional 2600 operations including orthopedic and cataract surgery will help clear a backlog.
Translated Hindi: The two hospitals together will have bed complement of 2000.
Hindi:
English: A total of 100,000 patients will be treated. This is to be supported by further training of health workers and the construction of a durable health facility.
Hindi:
English: The project will provide capacity

Original English: There's also money for walk-in clinics in Hobart and Launceston, better after-hospital care, medical specialist training, mental health services and the rollout of personal electronic health record systems in local hospitals.
Translated Hindi: 

Original English: "These investments respond to the ideas that front-line clinicians have told me will be the best ways to tend to Tasmania's health system," Ms Plibersek said.
Translated Hindi: "I know that the health service we are delivering is the best it has ever been, and I know that every Australian deserves access to the best health care in the world. The funding I am announcing today is another step towards that goal."
Hindi: "In this investment, the ideas that the

Original English: The minister insisted the Tasmanian Government would face a strict reporting and accountability regime.
Translated Hindi: The Opposition said the whole exercise was a waste of time.
Hindi: मं सरकार के वादा करते हैं कि तस्वीर राज्य सरकार को म

Original English: The state would have to maintain current funding levels in order to receive Commonwealth cash and report monthly on where it was spending the extra funds.
Translated Hindi: A state would have to provide the same financial security as required of a local government.
Hindi: तात्पर्य माननीय सरकार इस तरह के अपडेट की

Original English: A three-person commission will be set up to ensure the state is delivering services as effectively and efficiently as possible.
Translated Hindi: The commission will be made up of two members of the new cabinet and a third person from the public. The commission will be empowered to oversee the performance of all government departments and will be responsible for ensuring that each has an action plan to ensure it is delivering on its key priorities. The three commission members

Original English: Mr Wilkie today said the $325 million would count for little "unless it's followed by genuine reform to put Tasmania's public health system on a more sustainable footing."
Translated Hindi: Mr Wilkie said he had written to the Federal Health Minister, Tanya Plibersek, asking her to meet with him and members of the Tasmanian Parliament to discuss the unfolding public health crisis in Tasmania.
Hindi: Mr Wilkie आज ने कहा क

Original English: He nevertheless praised the Government for responding to his request for urgent assistance which he first raised with the Prime Minister at the beginning of May.
Translated Hindi: He said that the Government had provided the requisite human and technical support to the Ministry of Defence and that the latter was now in a position to provide the necessary assistance to the Haitian National Police.
Hindi: Lekin woh us par kaha ki usne aaj tak gareeb

Original English: "I'm hopeful the federal assistance package will go a long way towards taking the state's public health system off the critical list," Mr Wilkie said.
Translated Hindi: "It's critical the Commonwealth commits to funding for health workforce, equipment and facilities and that it's not just a one-off injection."
Hindi: "मुझे लगता है कि राष्ट्रीय मद

Original English: According to the State Government these additional elective procedures will largely reverse the recent cuts.
Translated Hindi: But the fact is that the hospitals’ definition of elective procedures is very different from that of the public. For the public, elective procedures are those that can be planned and undertaken outside the emergency department. But for the hospital, almost any procedure is elective, if and emergency department is not needed to save

Original English: But federal Opposition health spokesman Peter Dutton believes today's announcement is a "band-aid solution."
Translated Hindi: He says he has no confidence that the government is providing the right level of funding for the healthcare system.
Hindi: ṭe federal Oppoṭion health spokesman Peter Dutton believes today's announcement is a "band-aid solution." He says he has no confidence that the

Original English: "The reason we are here is that the Labor State Government ripped $430 million out of its health system," he told ABC TV.
Translated Hindi: "We are here today to say to the Labor Government, 'Stop the cuts'."
Hindi: "Hum sab yahan hai kyunki Labor State Government ne 430 million dollar se zyaada apne health system ko khatam kar diya hai," aapka ABC TV

Original English: You can't have a state government ripping out almost half-a-billion dollars and the Commonwealth put in $300 million and pretend it's a good news day.
Translated Hindi: The Commonwealth Government has delivered for Tasmania, but in terms of the state government's performance, I think the community is pretty clear which way they're looking.
Hindi: आप ही अपने राज्य सरकार ने र

Original English: Mr Dutton called on Ms Plibersek to guarantee that not one dollar out of the rescue package would be spent on additional bureaucracy.
Translated Hindi: Ms Plibersek said she was not going to guarantee that, and she would not be giving a blank cheque to the Prime Minister.
Hindi:
डटन ने म वाली पल बरसक को बचाने

Original English: Guillaume Nicloux's adaptation of Denis Diderot's novel boasts exceptional production design and period detail but is also heavier going than it should be.
Translated Hindi: Akin to the metaphorical listlessness of its protagonist, the film is an interesting but oddly unsatisfying experience.
Hindi: गुलाम निकलूज का अनुरोध का अनुरो

Original English: Unfolding in 1760s France, it tells the grim story of Suzanne, a young aristocrat sent to a convent by her family.
Translated Hindi: She is tormented by the insidious, predatory nuns who will do whatever it takes to control her.
Hin: आँगन का रहस्य कहानी है जो देख रहे ह

Original English: When she rebels, she experiences extreme cruelty at the hands of a wantonly sadistic Mother Superior and becomes an object of erotic fascination for another.
Translated Hindi: She discovers her own sexuality, leaving her with thoughts of suicide. She eventually becomes a lover of the Reverend Mother and is released from the convent.
Hindi: Jab woh musalman hokar gunehgaar hote hain, tab woh jo khud ko kisi

Original English: The film never slips into prurience or sensationalism - and that's the problem.
Translated Hindi: Sensationalism is what you want from a serial killer thriller, and the film is sorely lacking in it. The film is also too long, coming in at a hefty 2 hours and 15 minutes, and it doesn't need to be. The film, like the crimes, is un

Original English: The earnest solemnity of the storytelling risks making it a hair shirt-like ordeal for audiences, too.
Translated Hindi: But the film’s aesthetic impresses right off the bat, with an opening symphonic shot that sets the tone for what’s to come. An unforgettable sight.
Hindi: याद करनेवाला गूढ़तर्फ

Original English: The CSA's Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Munna Singh, has decided to charge an entrance fee to the park because of the litter being left in the park.
Translated Hindi: He said, "We have to charge the entrance fee because of the litter left in the park after the students leave. This is an international facility that attracts people from all over the world, and we need to make it clean. The entrance fee will also help us to keep the park cleaner, and

Original English: The departments have been given a 15 day ultimatum to clean the park.
Translated Hindi: Those who don’t comply will be sent to the guillotine.
Hindi: Departments are being given a 15 day ultimatum to clean this park. Those who don’t comply will be sent to the guillotine.

Question 2: Use the following words to create a sentence.

Original English: On Friday morning at ten o'clock the Vice-Chancellor randomly inspected the Deputy Director of Parks Department and Director of Research along with the parks department.
Translated Hindi: He had been sent to check the parks. He was also accompanied by the Director of Research along with the parks department. He was also accompanied by the Director of Research along with the parks department. He was also accompanied by the Director of Research along with the parks department. He was also accompanied by the

Original English: During this time more than a dozen employees of these departments, including the director, were found absent from their posts.
Translated Hindi: The reason for their absence was not explained.
Hindi: इस समय ये विभागों के कुछ अधिकारियों के अलावा अध

Original English: After reprimanding them he warned that their wages would be cut if they were found absent again.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उनके बराबर करने वाले उन्हें पकड़ा जाना था कि अगर वे अब भ

Original English: The director of the university, Dr. Naushad Khan, said that a monthly pass of Rs.30 would be charged for this purpose.
Translated Hindi: India's northern state of Jammu and Kashmir is the only place that does not charge its people for water. The authorities have decided to charge people for water from the month of June 2012. The government has made the decision to get rid of the water problem in the state. The state government

Original English: People would be able to visit the park for a daily fee of 1 Rs.
Translated Hindi: The park would be open from 9 AM to 5 PM. The park would be closed on Sundays. There would be museum for art and culture. The museum would have a permanent exhibition called “My India”. It would also have temporary exhibitions.
Answer:
पर्क के द

Original English: Work will be done systematically: The files from various departments will be put in front of the Vice-Chancellor under a system.
Translated Hindi: The Vice-Chancellor will read them. If he finds them acceptable, he will give his approval. Then the files will finally go to the Chancellor for his approval.
Hindi: Kaam sahi tarah se karayega: Ek system ke andar sirf deparment ke files mil

Original English: No employee will have the right to enter the office of the Vice-Chancellor with their files.
Translated Hindi: The files of all employees will be kept in the respective offices. The files of the employees will be kept in the respective offices. The files of the employees will be kept in the respective offices. The files of the employees will be kept in the respective offices. The files of the employees will be kept

Original English: The officer concerned will present the files to the Vice-Chancellor.
Translated Hindi: The Vice-Chancellor will review the files and return the same to the officer concerned. The officer concerned will ensure that the recommendations are given due attention and that the recommendations are carried out.
Hindi: थरक्षा-एक्ट सम्बंध

Original English: Syria has destroyed its chemical weapons making ability, watchdog group says
Translated Hindi: . The international body overseeing Syria's disarmament mission said on Tuesday that Damascus has destroyed its ability to make chemical weapons in a major step toward fully eliminating its arsenal. The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons said in a statement that the Syrian government had destroyed equipment used to produce and fill shells,

Original English: Syria has destroyed critical equipment for producing chemical weapons and poison gas munitions, the global chemical weapons watchdog said Thursday as fierce clashes raged in the country's north, close to one of the sites where toxic agents are believed to be stored.
Translated Hindi: The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons said the destruction of the equipment in Syria is a major milestone in the U.S.- Russia brokered deal to destroy the country's chemical weapons arsenal by mid-2014. The OPCW said that some 70 percent of Syria's chemical weapons have been

Original English: Also Thursday, a Syrian activist group said more than 120,000 people have been killed since the start of the country's civil war nearly three years ago.
Translated Hindi: The Britain-based Syrian Observatory of Human Rights reported that over 3,500 people have been killed in recent days in renewed fighting between government forces and rebels in the central city of Homs.
Hindi: भग कार्यग्र आज अक

Original English: The announcement by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons came one day ahead of the Nov.
Translated Hindi: 26 deadline for the completion of a full list of the country's chemical weapons stockpile.
Hindi: Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons Organization ke prastav ke anusaar, 21 November ko deta tha ki 26 November ko vishesh shreni ke m

Original English: 1 deadline set by The Hague-based organization for Damascus to destroy or "render inoperable" all chemical weapon production facilities and machinery for mixing chemicals into poison gas and filling munitions.
Translated Hindi: The agency said that it would take "several weeks" to complete the task.
Hindi: वहाँ एक फाइनल निर्देश दिल्ली के संगठन के

Original English: The completion of what is essentially the initial stage of destruction is a significant milestone in an ambitious timeline that aims to destroy all of Damascus' chemical weapons by mid-2014.
Translated Hindi: We are encouraged by the progress that has been made.
Hindi: Yeh jo kuchh jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo

Original English: Destruction of the equipment means that Syria can no longer produce new chemical weapons.
Translated Hindi: This is a very important step in the process of destroying chemical weapons in Syria. The destruction of the equipment is carried out on the basis of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons.
Hindi: विपत्ति

Original English: However, Damascus still has to start destroying existing weapons and stockpiles.
Translated Hindi: It is not enough for Damascus to have given a positive response to the OPCW. It also has to start destroying existing weapons and stockpiles.
Hindi: यह बताने के लिए, जबकि दमास

Original English: The country is believed to have around 1,000 metric tons of chemicals and weapons including mustard gas and the nerve agent sarin.
Translated Hindi: The United States has said that it will destroy the Syrian chemical weapons and the means to produce them if the country agrees to a deal.
Hindi: देश में कुछ 1000 मीटर टन की रुचि

Original English: The announcement came as fighting raged Thursday in the town of Safira, which experts say is home to a chemical weapons production facility as well as storage sites, reported the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.
Translated Hindi: The U.S. military said it was not yet clear who was behind the strikes, which appeared to be the first time U.S. jets had hit targets in Syria. The Trump administration said the chemical attack was a game-changer for the president, who has said he wants to pull U.S.

Original English: The activist group, which has been tracking the death toll through a network of activists in Syria, said Thursday that 120,296 people have died.
Translated Hindi: That includes 11,458 children and 7,228 women. The figures were updated through the first days of March. The group began documenting deaths in March 2011.
Hindi: ऐसी कार्यक्रम के खिलाफ

Original English: Of those, it said 61,067 are civilians, including 6,365 children.
Translated Hindi: The report said the government of Yemen, along with its Saudi-led coalition, is responsible for 63% of the 17,725 civilian deaths.
Hindi: 1,25,000 सभी लोगों के साथ, वह स

Original English: On the government side, it said 29,954 are members of President Bashar Assad's armed forces, 18,678 are pro-government fighters and 187 are Lebanese Hezbollah militants.
Translated Hindi: On the rebel side, the government said 6,807 fighters belong to the Free Syrian Army, 5,011 are from al Qaeda-linked al-Nusra Front and 1,659 are from other groups.
Hindi: प्रशासन की साइड

Original English: Also among the dead it said were 2,202 army defectors and some 5,375 opposition fighters, many of them foreigners.
Translated Hindi: The report, issued at midnight and based on data from a network of doctors and hospitals across the country, also said 1,648 young children had been killed, along with 1,245 women.
Hindi: बहुत सारे दूसरे

Original English: On July 25, the U.N. estimated 100,000 have died in the conflict since March 2011.
Translated Hindi: More than 6 million people need humanitarian aid and 1.5 million people are displaced. The U.N. called the conflict a “full-blown civil war” between the Assad regime and rebels.
Hindi: जुलाई 25 को यून

Original English: It has not updated that figure since.
Translated Hindi: It is a matter of principle.
Hindi: साथीमन को तिथि नहीं बदल चुका है। यह एक शान्ति की म

Original English: The conflict has forced some 2 million people to flee the country.
Translated Hindi: The country is now facing a severe food crisis, and the United Nations has appealed for $1.6 billion in emergency aid. A severe drought last year affected the country's ability to provide food for its citizens. The United Nations estimates that 12 million people in the country are now in desperate need

Original English: Assad's troops have been battling rebels, many of them linked to al-Qaida groups, in Safira for weeks.
Translated Hindi: His forces have been trying to drive the insurgents from the town, which is under the control of the al-Qaida-linked Nusra Front, which leads the Islamic State in Syria. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the strike hit the Jawahir neighborhood, killing the al-Qaida members,

Original English: The Observatory said there were casualties on both sides Thursday but had no specifics.
Translated Hindi: It said the exchange of fire was the first in the area since Oct. 18, when Israeli troops killed a top Hamas militant in a West Bank raid.
Hindi: आज इस देश में आगे आपकी

Original English: The fighting underscored the dangers the chemical weapons' inspectors face as they race against tight deadlines in their mission to rid Syria of the toxic arsenal in the midst of an ongoing civil war.
Translated Hindi: The inspectors are due to leave Syria by Friday and take with them the samples they have collected during the weeklong mission.
Hindi: यह जंग पास हुये जंग के खिलाड़ी को

Original English: A statement from the OPCW, which works closely with the United Nations, said its team was "now satisfied that it has verified - and seen destroyed - all of Syria's declared critical production and mixing/filling equipment."
Translated Hindi: (Source: Reuters)
Hindi: OPCW ने निम्न अनुवाद के लिए आवश्यक सूचना प्रदान की है

Original English: It added that, "no further inspection activities are currently planned."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उसने बताया कि, "अब तक अनुच्छेद 19 (अ) में प्रतिबंधित आदेश

Original English: Earlier this week, the inspectors said they had completed their first round of verification work, visiting 21 of 23 sites declared by Damascus.
Translated Hindi: The inspectors have been given two weeks to complete their work, but the team is expected to stay longer. They are scheduled to leave Damascus on Sunday.
Hindi: Pehle hi is pahele, Inspectors ney kaha ki woh kisi bhi cheez ka po

Original English: They were unable to visit two sites because of security concerns, the inspectors said.
Translated Hindi: The first was the Tajik border crossing into Afghanistan, where the inspectors were said to be concerned about the possibility of nuclear smuggling. The second was the town of Khulm, in the northern province of Jowzjan, where the inspectors said they were unable to reach an active uranium mill that

Original English: On Thursday, OPCW said the two locations were, according to Syria, "abandoned and ... the chemical weapons program items they contained were moved to other declared sites, which were inspected."
Translated Hindi: (The chemical weapons program is the Syrian government's chemical weapons and munitions that use them, including the means of their production). "According to information obtained by the OPCW, some ... chemical weapons were also moved to a location outside Syria. The OPCW is investigating the accuracy and authenticity of this

Original English: It was not immediately clear if the facility in Safira was one of the two sites that OPCW inspectors were not able to visit.
Translated Hindi: In a separate development, Syrian state media reported that the army had destroyed a "terrorist den" in a village near the city of Homs. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a UK-based group that tracks the conflict, said it had no details of the location or casualties.
Hindi:

Original English: Syria has submitted a plan for the total destruction of its chemical weapons that has to be approved next month by the OPCW's executive committee.
Translated Hindi: The plan must be submitted to the UN Security Council for approval before it is confirmed. Syria must submit the details of its plan to the OPCW by 15 November. The OPCW will then examine the Syria's plan and, if approved by the executive committee, the plan must be approved by the

Original English: "I salute the fortitude and courage you've all demonstrated in fulfilling the most challenging mission ever undertaken by this organization," the watchdog's director-general, Ahmet Uzumcu, said in comments released by the OPCW.
Translated Hindi: "You have shown that our efforts to rid the world of chemical weapons is not a hollow promise."
Hindi: "Mujhe tumhare balidaan aur kranti ka shresht ansa sahi lagta hai , is organization k kam ke liye ." OPCW ka director-general

Original English: Now in its third year, the civil war pits the primarily Sunni Muslim rebels against Assad's government and its security forces, which are stacked with members of his Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.
Translated Hindi: The rebels, which include fighters from al-Qaida's Syria affiliate, have been making gains on the battlefield in recent months. The war, which has caused a humanitarian crisis in Syria, has spilled into neighboring Lebanon, Iraq, Turkey and Jordan. In July, the Arab League suspended Syria for failing to

Original English: In other developments, the Observatory's chief Rami Abdurrahman said there had been a strong explosion Wednesday inside an air defense facility in Syria's coastal province of Latakia.
Translated Hindi: That was the first explosion at a military facility in Syria since a massive blast in July at a military site near the capital Damascus, which the Observatory said was an Israeli strike.
Hindi : अन्य विषयों में वर्तम

Original English: The cause of the blast was not known, he said.
Translated Hindi: However, the police said that the blast occurred around 11.30 am when the train was passing through the Nattal area of Muzaffarpur district. It was not immediately clear whether the deceased were travelling in the train or were at the platform.
Hindi: बस क

Original English: Police seized a forged registry, forged seals, a laptop and photocopies of registration documents from the accused.
Translated Hindi: The police would offer Rs 25,000 to whoever gives information leading to the arrest of the accused.
Hindi: Police ne aane wali rashi ke nirdharit karte, aane wali dookan ke seal ka nirdharit karte, Laptop aur a

Original English: Moti Nagar police have registered a case against the accused.
Translated Hindi: The accused has been arrested. The girl has been sent to the hospital for the medical examination. The medical examination has been done. The accused has been sent to judicial custody. The accused has confessed to the crime. The accused has been sent for a medical examination. The accused has been arrested. The

Original English: Police commissioner Paramjit Singh said that those arrested and accused are Haiboval Rajiv Agarwal a.k.a. Bintu from Chandan Nagar, from Ghumar Mandi, Kamal Krushna Jaiswal, Gurwinder Singh Jaggi from Kohada and Sonu from Ghumar Mandi.
Translated Hindi: They were arrested by the police on early Tuesday morning. They used to take the photographs of the girls in the college and later they used to click the photographs of the girls in the park. They used to blackmail the girls with the help of these photographs to make a video of them. They used to

Original English: Balbir Singh from the Registrar Office (East) has fled from the scene.
Translated Hindi: He had come to the Finance Department for a file. He has a habit of picking up small items from the desks of the employees. He has fled.
Hindi: Rajneesh Kumar, Registrar Office (East) ke paas chala gaya hai. Unhone Finance Department me file li

Original English: According to the police the accused used to take out the documents of the records of vacant and old plots with the help of Balbir Singh, a clerk and record keeper in the Registrar Office and then, by purchasing new stamp papers, used to make counterfeit registration documents for them.
Translated Hindi: He had made such documents in which he had mentioned that he had purchased these plots from the names of Sr. No. 1 to 7. These people were living in a rented accommodation, but had registered their names against the plots of their names.
Hindi: According to the police, the

Original English: Not only that, but they used to destroy the original registry documents and then the false registry documents were updated in the records.
Translated Hindi: In addition, they used to change the names of the property owners in the register book.
Hindi: नहीं भी वेधिकारों ने वेध विकास के मूल र

Original English: Then the accused use to sell the land with counterfeit papers for crores of rupees.
Translated Hindi: He had sold the land in the name of his brothers and to his friends. The second accused had sold the lands of the first accused, and the third accused had sold the lands of the second accused, and the fourth accused had sold the lands of the third accused, and the fifth accused had sold

Original English: At the same time, they would take out loans against these counterfeit documents.
Translated Hindi: This is the reason why they do not have any money to pay for the loan.
Hindi: उसी समय, ये ज़्यादातर उपभोक्ता इन द

Original English: Thereafter, the original owner would be left running to the police and administration.
Translated Hindi: But what happens if the original owner does not want to claim it? Hindi: यहाँ तक कि अगर उसे चाहना पड़ता है तो राज्य सर

Original English: Those accused of the counterfeit registrations were especially intersted in the NRIG plots.
Translated Hindi: NRIG is a temporary allotment of land for one year to the poor and needy to build their own homes. It is provided by the government to the poor, but many people misuse this facility by selling the plots illegally. The government has become more vigilant now and has taken action to stop such misuse

Original English: As no-one was looking after the NRIG plots.
Translated Hindi: Sujata got angry with him.
Hindi: Kisi ne NRIG plots ka khulasa nahi kiya tha to Sujata unki sambhal nahi sakti thi.
Translation:
Translation of words:
Sujata = चार सेक

Original English: So it was easy to forge registration documents and sell the land.
Translated Hindi: Now it is not easy. So the land is being sold to the rich.
Hindi: तो यह सवाल था कि रजिस्ट्रा वैक्सीन डॉक

Original English: The Police Commissioner said that, upon interrogation, the accused said that they had made about 150 counterfeit registrations so far.
Translated Hindi: The police has not been able to find the original car registration documents of two of the three cars they purchased. They have been arrested for committing offences under sections 467, 468, 471 and 120 B of the IPC. They have also been arrested under section 4 of the Indian Evidence

Original English: According to police Rajiv, the leader of the gang, already has a criminal record for fraud and theft.
Translated Hindi: He is currently in jail for offences committed in another city. Rajiv's brother, who is also in the gang, has been in prison for stealing 15 computers from a local company. Two of the other gang members are cousins of Rajiv and they also have a criminal record.
Hindi:

Original English: Anger over Bali bomb plotter's sentence
Translated Hindi: Hindi: बाली बॉम्ब बंद की निःश्रेष्ठ अदालत की आजादी के विरोध म

Original English: Survivors and relatives of the 202 people killed in the 2002 Bali bombing have reacted with anger over the sentence given to the last of the plotters to face justice, saying Umar Patek should face a firing squad.
Translated Hindi: Patek was jailed for life in October after a trial that lasted just a week, the shortest in the history of the country's courts, but his lawyers immediately appealed against the sentence. He was the last of the 19 people convicted over the bombing to be sentenced and the first to be tried

Original English: Patek, who spent almost 10 years on the run as one of South-East Asia's most wanted, was yesterday sentenced to 20 years in jail for his role in building the explosive devices used in the bombing.
Translated Hindi: Mr Patek, from East Java, had fled to Australia in 2000 after being accused of planting bombs in Kuta's Sari Club, killing 202 people, and more recently of planting bombs in a Bali church in 2002, killing 12.
Hindi: प

Original English: He could be released within 15 years if granted parole.
Translated Hindi: He was convicted of murder in 1998 and sentenced to life in prison in 2000. The state of California has the largest death row in the United States. At the moment, there are 746 people on death row in California. A total of 13,000 people have been executed

Original English: The 45-year-old was found guilty of mass murder for the attack on two nightclubs in the popular tourist area of Kuta which left 202 people dead, including 88 Australians, and injured scores more.
Translated Hindi: 

Original English: He was also found guilty of a number of other terrorism-related charges, including a wave of bombings of churches across Indonesia on Christmas Eve in 2000.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वह अनेक अन्य आतंकी क्षेत्रीय चर्चित आरोपों से भी गिरफ्त

Original English: Prosecutors had demanded a life sentence, although they could have pushed that the man dubbed the "Demolition Man" for his reputation as a master bomb-maker be sentenced to death.
Translated Hindi: The man was convicted of 14 separate offenses, including murder, attempted murder and a range of other violent crimes. He was convicted of helping to plan the 1993 World Trade Center bombing in New York and the 1995 bombing of a federal building in Oklahoma City.
Hindi: Prosecutors

Original English: The decision has reignited painful memories for Perth mother June Corteen, who lost her 39-year-old twin daughters Jane and Jenny in the destruction unleashed by Patek and his co-conspirators almost a decade ago.
Translated Hindi: The girls were two of 88 Australians killed in the Mumbai carnage, alongside 25 Britons, 12 Americans, six Canadians, three New Zealanders, two of the 239 passengers on board Qantas flight 6, two French nationals and one person each from Japan, Hong Kong,

Original English: Fighting back tears, she said Patek should have been sentenced to death.
Translated Hindi: “I do still love him, but I hate what he has done to me. I hate that he has hurt so many other people.” Hindi: रीरां पूरा था की पाटेक अपराधी कह

Original English: I really feel that he should follow in the footsteps of the other guys.
Translated Hindi: They have all played very well. I feel that he is ready to follow well.
Hindi: मैं वहाँ से दिखना चाहता हूँ लेकिन उसे द

Original English: "He should be put in front of the firing squad," Ms Corteen told AAP.
Translated Hindi: "That's where he belongs." "This is disgusting. It's not on. It's just not on."
Hindi: “वह फायरिंग स्कॉउप पार कर दिया ज

Original English: I have to live every day without seeing more grandchildren, and my daughters.
Translated Hindi: I have to live every day without seeing my grandchildren and my daughters.
Hindi: Kya aap jante hai, main sun chuka hu ki, main aaj tak mere bachche aur mere bacche ke baare mein, sun chuka hun ki, main aaj tak mere bac

Original English: The Sari Club was levelled when a massive bomb loaded into a van parked outside was detonated just after 11pm on October 12, 2002.
Translated Hindi: The explosion shook the entire town, and its effects were felt kilometres away. Thirty-nine people were killed and more than 100 injured.
Hindi: साड़ी क्लब इस व ़स्तु पर बैं

Original English: Peter Hughes was in Paddy's Bar where a suicide bomber detonated a backpack loaded with explosives just 20 seconds earlier.
Translated Hindi: The blast shattered windows and blew open doors, sending panic-stricken patrons and staff running for cover. A thick cloud of smoke filled the pub.
Hindi: पीटर ह्यूग्स ने पैडी बार म

Original English: He lapsed into a month-long coma in the wake of the bombing, and "died" three times while on life support.
Translated Hindi: But on Jan. 21, the 23-year-old college student opened his eyes for the first time. He set his sights on the Super Bowl. But on Jan. 21, the 23-year-old college student opened his eyes for the first time. He set his sights on the Super

Original English: Mr Hughes said Patek should have shared the same fate as three other members of the Jemaah Islamiah terror cell responsible for the carnage - Amrozi, Mukhlas and Imam Samudra - who were executed four years ago.
Translated Hindi: “My son should have been included in the execution. He deserved to die,” said Mr Hughes, who is also known as Abdul Ghani. “I am satisfied that justice was served. I hope this will help bring peace to the people of Indonesia.” "I am very happy that justice has been

Original English: Really, this guy should get the death penalty before anybody.
Translated Hindi: He has killed over 300 people, and is still counting.
Hindi: यह लोग, जो अंतर्गत लगे हुए 300 लोगों को मार

Original English: To keep him alive, well, there's no reason to keep him alive.
Translated Hindi: I think it's a very, very, very, very bad idea to keep him alive.
Hindi: Apne liye toh uss ko chodna chahiye, agar apne choda toh usse chhod do, kyunki agar apne choda

Original English: To get 20 years, after killing 202 people and injuring many hundreds, it's not much.
Translated Hindi: The killers should be punished for their crime. There is no punishment for the crime of killing human beings. If we want to reduce the crime of killing human beings, then it is necessary to take severe punishment for the crime of killing human beings. Not just 20 years, but many more years should

Original English: Patek is the last of the Bali bombers to face justice.
Translated Hindi: In his case, the death sentence is a foregone conclusion, given that he has confessed. But he may still take a long time to die.
Hindi: पैटेक काला बम बुराई के अंद

Original English: He had avoided capture for almost a decade but was eventually apprehended in January 2011 in the Pakistani town of Abbottabad, where US forces killed former al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden less than four months later.
Translated Hindi: Navy Seals killed bin Laden after a firefight in the Pakistani garrison city of Abbottabad. Bin Laden was buried at sea, according to the Pentagon.
Hindi: वह एक दशानुसार से गिरफ्त

Original English: During the trial, an FBI agent testified that intelligence reports had revealed Patek was in Pakistan to meet with bin Laden in an effort to re-establish links between South-East Asian terrorist groups and al-Qaeda.
Translated Hindi: Source: http://www.abc.net.au/news/2012-07-26/indonesia-imprisons-suspected-usaidegyptian-terror-link/4149626
Hindi: रीजल हेल्प, कंफ्य

Original English: "He didn't give himself up," Ms Corteen said.
Translated Hindi: The 24-year-old, who is originally from Johannesburg, has been released on $1000 bail, and must attend court in September. She said the 20-year-old had been "devastated" by the death of her father, who was also a keen cyclist. "She is really

Original English: Until just recently, he really didn't feel sorry for how much grief he caused other people.
Translated Hindi: Now, he is beginning to feel sorry for them. Hindi: Agar pahle bhi aisa hota toh, he baat aisi chhoot jaati. Yeh abhi thodi feel kar raha hai. 
10) Translate the following text from English to Hindi

Original English: The verdict comes ahead of the 10th anniversary of the attack later this year, which will be marked by ceremonies in Bali and Australia.
Translated Hindi: The bombings killed 202 people, including 88 Australians.
In the above text, what does the phrase 'the verdict' refer to?
A) The anniversary of the attack
B) The Bali bombings
C) The Bali bombings and the anniversary of the attack
D) Bali
E)

Original English: "There will be a lot of tears this year," Ms Corteen said.
Translated Hindi: "It will be the last time these girls make their way through the gates of the academy. It will be the last time they wear the uniform. It will be the last time they make their way down the academy steps."
Hindi: "Yeh samay bahut chhote chh

Original English: Patek may yet appeal his sentence.
Translated Hindi: He is currently in the Smith County Jail in Tyler, Texas. He is scheduled to be transferred to the state prison system on May 20. Patek is serving his 30-day sentence on weekends.
Hindi: पते के एवं उसके

Original English: FAA: Air passengers can now use gadgets on planes (but not make cell phone calls)
Translated Hindi: during takeoff and landing
Hindi: FAA: विमानों में कैगेट्स का उपयोग लोगों को फ्लाइटों

Original English: Airline passengers will be able to use their electronic devices gate-to-gate to read, work, play games, watch movies and listen to music - but not talk on their cellphones - under much-anticipated new guidelines issued Thursday by the Federal Aviation Administration.
Translated Hindi: Devices will have to remain in airplane mode until the plane reaches 10,000 feet so they won't interfere with the plane's navigation systems. And passengers will have to stow large electronic items like laptops during takeoff and landing. The changes. The FAA has been weighing the question of whether to

Original English: But passengers shouldn't expect changes to happen immediately.
Translated Hindi: Because of the way the trains are built, it will take time to reprogram the computerized equipment that controls the trains.
Hindi: वहाँ जंगली करीब 10 लेखक हैं और

Original English: How fast the change is implemented will vary by the airline, FAA Administrator Michael Huerta said at a news conference.
Translated Hindi: He also said that one of the planes involved in the grounding is the same type as the Ethiopian Airlines plane that crashed.
Hindi: आवश्यक सुधार का अपना अनुभव होन

Original English: Airlines will have to show the FAA how their airplanes meet the new guidelines and that they've updating their flight crew training manuals and rules for stowing devices to reflect the new guidelines.
Translated Hindi: FAA expects to have the new rules in place by the end of this year.
Hindi: Airlines विधायकों ने बताया कि उन्हें नये विनियमो

Original English: The FAA said it has already received plans from some airlines to expand the use of portable electronic devices on planes.
Translated Hindi: The agency said in an advisory last month that it is considering whether to lift a ban on using devices during takeoff and landing.
Hindi: FAA ne kaha hai ki woh abhi bhi puraane logon ke liye ek jyada der tak kafi nahin hai

Original English: Delta and JetBlue were among the airliners who have already submitted plans.
Translated Hindi: They say their airplanes will be able to fly as long as possible using onboard fuel reserves. Delta says its planes can fly for another 30 minutes. United Airlines says its planes can fly for around 30 minutes.
Hindi: डेल्टा एवं ज

Original English: "Depending on the condition of the plan, we could approve expanded use of electronic devices very soon," the FAA said in a statement.
Translated Hindi: The agency provided no timetable for the move.
Hindi: "Aur condition plan ke upar jaisa ho, aapne electronic devices jaldi se jaldi use karne ke liye approve kar sakte hain", FAA ne statement me kaha hai. Yeh agency ke

Original English: Currently, passengers are required to turn off their smartphones, tablets and other devices once a plane's door closes.
Translated Hindi: However, the Federal Aviation Administration is currently considering a proposal that would allow passengers to use such devices as e-readers, portable DVD players and other small electronic devices during takeoff and landing. According to the proposal, the devices would have to be turned off for takeoff and landing, but would be

Original English: They're not supposed to restart them until the planes reach 10,000 feet and the captain gives the go-ahead.
Translated Hindi: How will they know when we reach 10,000 feet? How will the captain give the go-ahead? In Hindi: वे बच्चा से पहले फ्लाइन पर नहीं उतरन

Original English: Passengers are supposed to turn their devices off again as the plane descends to land and not restart them until the plane is on the ground.
Translated Hindi: Any device that can connect to the Internet is required to be in flight mode, whether it be a smartphone, laptop, iPad or other. It is important to note that passengers are not allowed to use any phone or device that can connect to the Internet to send or receive messages during the flight, even

Original English: Under the new guidelines, airlines whose planes are properly protected from electronic interference may allow passengers to use the devices during takeoffs, landings and taxiing, the FAA said.
Translated Hindi: Devices must be kept in airplane mode or flight mode, which shuts down most functions, during those times.
Hindi: प्रत्येक यूनाइटेड एयरलाइन्स के नए

Original English: Most new airliners and other planes that have been modified so that passengers can use Wifi at higher altitudes are expected to meet the criteria.
Translated Hindi: The new guidelines, which are to be issued this week, will allow Internet access on commercial flights. The UK-based Inmarsat, which operates a global satellite communications network, has proposed a new standard for onboard Wi-Fi, which will provide access to some 95 percent of the world’s population.

Original English: Laura Glading, president of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, welcomed the changes.
Translated Hindi: “We’re really glad that it’s finally happened, and we’re really glad that it’s finally done,” she said. “It’s really important to us that our passengers know that we’re trying to create a culture of respect and courtesy on the plane.” Hindi: लॉरा

Original English: "Once the new policy is safely implemented - and we're going to work closely with the carrier to do that - it will be a win-win," Glading said in a statement.
Translated Hindi: "The business community will gain increased flexibility and predictability, while the city will gain additional revenue through increased fuel tax and parking fee collections."
Hindi: "ये नया पोलीस कर्तव्य सफल होन

Original English: We're frankly tired of feeling like 'hall monitors' when it comes to this issue.
Translated Hindi: There are plenty of other ways to deal with this problem that wouldn't require the Government to just give in to the pressure of special interest groups.
Hindi: Hum aapne istemaal ke badle ek achhi tarah se bhadakne ki galti kee tarah

Original English: But connecting to the Internet to surf, exchange emails, text or download data will still be prohibited below 10,000 feet, the agency said.
Translated Hindi: The ban also includes the GPS navigation devices, that are attached to the dashboard, which are used for driving directions. The FAA said it is still studying the safety issues and will issue a proposed rule in 2015.

Hindi : पर इस्तेमाल , स

Original English: Passengers will be told to switch their smartphones, tablets and other devices to airplane mode.
Translated Hindi: Passengers will have to turn off their devices completely before takeoff. Devices must be off and stowed during landing.
Hindi: Videsh anubhuti karne waale adhikariyon ko bulaaya gaya hai ki unhe mobile phone, tablet aur aur any

Original English: So, still no Words With Friends, the online Scrabble-type game that actor Alec Baldwin was playing on his smartphone in 2011 when he was famously booted off an American Airlines jet for refusing to turn off the device while the plane was parked at the gate.
Translated Hindi: The incident, immortalized in a string of viral videos, helped kick off the smartphone era. But Baldwin and his smartphone, as it turns out, were somehow exempt from the rules. His game kept going. He won. He never lost.
Hindi: तो कोई

Original English: And heavier devices such as laptops will continue to have to be stowed because of concern they might injure someone if they go flying around the cabin.
Translated Hindi: For smaller devices, such as mobile phones, the FAA will make a decision on their use after consulting experts in the US. In the UK, the Department for Transport said it would wait to see the outcome of the US review.
Hindi: और गमय य

Original English: In-flight cellphone calls also will continue to be prohibited.
Translated Hindi: The Department of Transportation, after a month of public comment, said it will maintain a ban on cellphone calls during flight, citing the ability of many passengers to turn off their cellphones. It also said that a recent increase in air traffic has increased concerns about the possible interference with airline communications systems.
H

Original English: Regulatory authority over phone calls belongs to the Federal Communications Commission, not the FAA.
Translated Hindi: FAA regulations do not prohibit the use of cell phones during flights. However, most airlines have rules about the use of cell phones during flight.
2. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
एफएएए विकेटडेट म

Original English: FAA may lift ban on some electronic devices during takeoff and landing
Translated Hindi: Hindi: एफएएए मेराबन कोई ऐसी वाहनों के बराबर व्यवस्था दोहरा स

Original English: Last month, National Transportation Safety Board Mark Rosenker, a CBS News national transportation safety expert, said that cell phones are still considered a risk.
Translated Hindi: Rosenker said, "I would strongly discourage anybody from using a cell phone while driving. It's still a risk. It's still a distraction." Rosenker said that if you're in a car accident, you'll be the first one to be sued. "And you will be found negligent if

Original English: "Cell phones, that really is an issue, not just because potentially it could create interference with navigational devices, but we do know, according to the FCC, that it could interfere with cell phone towers when they're in the air," Rosenker said.
Translated Hindi: "We're looking at a variety of things. There are some experimental aircrafts that have been conducted that have shown that it is possible to have cell phones in the cockpit."
Hindi: "लेंगे बैडनेट एक व

Original English: An industry advisory committee created by the FAA to examine the issue recommended last month that the government permit greater use of personal electronic devices.
Translated Hindi: However, the agency is still studying how to implement the changes. The committee said passengers should be allowed to use e-book readers and tablets in airplane mode when the aircraft is flying above 10,000 feet.
Hindi: एफएएएए की

Original English: Pressure has been building on the FAA in recent years to ease restrictions on their use.
Translated Hindi: FAA officials have been reluctant to allow such changes, however, because of safety concerns. In addition, the transportation department has been reluctant to allow the use of the devices, given the potential for interference between the phones and communications systems in the aircraft. FAA officials have now admitted that the phones are harmless,

Original English: Critics such as Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., contend there is no valid safety reason for the prohibitions.
Translated Hindi: “It’s ridiculous,” she said. “The only thing that’s keeping them from being in the handbag are the regulations of the airline.” Just because the ban may not make sense on a safety level doesn’t mean it will be easy to lift, however.
Hindi: क्रिट

Original English: The restrictions have also become increasingly difficult to enforce as use of the devices has become ubiquitous.
Translated Hindi: For example, in the United States, it is estimated that by 2010, nearly 4.5 billion text messages were sent per day, which translates to 1.6 trillion messages per year. If equally divided among 300 million people, each would send 5,400 messages.

Original English: Some studies indicate as many as a third of passengers forget or ignore directions to turn off their devices.
Translated Hindi: In fact, the FAA has said that some people have even forgotten to take off their seatbelts. The problem is that the airplane’s electronic equipment is so distracting that passengers will sometimes ignore the preflight announcements or fail to follow simple instructions. In fact, pilots have said that passengers will sometimes talk

Original English: The FAA began restricting passengers' use of electronic devices in 1966 in response to reports of interference with navigation and communications equipment when passengers began carrying FM radios, the high-tech gadgets of their day.
Translated Hindi: In 2006, the FAA decided to allow airlines to create their own rules for allowing portable electronic devices (PEDs) to be used during flights. Some airlines only allow PEDs that are battery powered to be used during flight. Other airlines allow PEDs that require electrical power to be used during

Original English: New airliners are far more reliant on electrical systems than previous generations of aircraft, but they are also designed and approved by the FAA to be resistant to electronic interference.
Translated Hindi: The FAA will not approve any aircraft for flight if the airplane can be adversely affected by any form of electronic interference, including interference from the airplane itself. The FAA requires that the airplane be able to operate with all the computers, systems, and equipment functioning normally, even if some of the components are in

Original English: Airlines have been offering Wi-Fi use at cruising altitudes to passengers for several years.
Translated Hindi: The service has been popular both with passengers, who are able to use the Internet and their smartphones and tablets, and with the airlines, because doing so generates additional revenue.
Hindi: Airlines have been offering Wi-Fi use at cruising altitudes to passengers for several years. The service has been popular both

Original English: Planes modified for Wi-Fi systems are also more resistant to interference.
Translated Hindi: A radio signal is used to transmit internet data to the plane and a second signal is used to receive it. Both signals are encrypted and can be transmitted simultaneously, so internet cannot be accessed by other passengers. The use of a second radio signal also makes the system more resistant to interference from other sources such

Original English: The vast majority of airliners should qualify for greater electronic device use under the new guidelines, Huerta said.
Translated Hindi: The FAA had previously allowed passenger use of electronic devices in airplane mode during all phases of flight, including takeoff and landing. But a growing number of passengers have ignored the rule, prompting the FAA to change it.
Translation:
वस्तुत: वैसे ह

Original English: Today's electronic devices generally emit much lower power radio transmissions than previous generations of devices.
Translated Hindi: Yet, many devices, such as cell phones, remain a more significant source of radio emissions than others. Many people are concerned about exposure to radio waves from these devices, and some have expressed concern about the possible health effects of this exposure. The purpose of this study is to survey the type of radio

Original English: E-readers, for example, emit only minimal transmissions when turning a page.
Translated Hindi: Especially when you consider the amount of energy that is expended to move books around the country from warehouse to bookstore and from bookstore to consumer's home. It is estimated that one e-reader saves 100 trees a year and prevents 27 kilos of greenhouse gas emissions. (millions of tons of paper

Original English: But transmissions are stronger when devices are downloading or sending data.
Translated Hindi: This means that it is possible to have a much stronger signal from one device than another. Furthermore, devices will be transmitting at different times, so the difference is not permanent.
Hindi: Par transmission bhi strong hai jab device download ya send kar raha hai data. Iska matlab hai ki

Original English: Among those pressing for a relaxation of restrictions on passengers' use of the devices has been Amazon.com.
Translated Hindi: The company, which has invested in a startup that makes headphones that are safe to use on aircraft, has said that the rules have cost it money as customers choose to buy books and other products instead of ordering them on its Kindle e-reader while traveling.
Hindi:
Aur jo logon ko restrictions

Original English: In 2011, company officials loaded an airliner full of their Kindle e-readers and flew it around to test for problems but found none.
Translated Hindi: The company is hoping this new version will be the best-selling Kindle yet. The device features a touchscreen interface with a 6-inch screen that can hold 3,000 books, while its battery life is said to be 25% longer than the current version.
Hindi: 2011 म

Original English: FAA advisory committee members expressed mixed feelings about whether use of the devices presents any risk.
Translated Hindi: They acknowledged that the devices are very popular, but they also described the possibility that they may be problematic, especially when it comes to dealing with people who are not trained to use them. “I have an iPhone and I’m an avid walker,” said Jim Lee, a member of the committee. “

Original English: Douglas Kidd of the National Association of Airline Passengers said he believes interference from the devices is genuine even if the risk is minimal.
Translated Hindi: "The information we've been given by the airlines is that if you're using the device, it's a potential hazard to other people nearby," he said. "And if that's the case, then you should turn it off." The FAA, however, disagrees. In a statement, it said

Original English: Other committee members said there are only anecdotal reports from pilots to support that the devices can interfere with aircraft systems, and most of those reports are very old.
Translated Hindi: The AOPA, the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, is one advocacy group that has said it opposes the new rules. The AOPA said the rules will significantly reduce the availability of this technology to general aviation pilots. The group said it also has concerns about the low altitude of the ADS

Original English: However, the committee recommended the FAA allow pilots to order passengers to shut off devices during instrument landings in low visibility.
Translated Hindi: The device would have to be off for the entire flight. Pilots could turn the devices back on after landing.
Hindi: वह समय पर प्रस्ताव for the entire flight. Pilots could turn the devices back on after landing.
English:

Original English: A travel industry group welcomed the changes, calling them common-sense accommodations for a traveling public now bristling with technology.
Translated Hindi: "This is an important step forward that will allow people with disabilities to travel with the same ease of access and convenience as everyone else," said Jill Zuckman, a spokeswoman for the Air Transport Association of America, which represents major airlines. "It's an example of reasonable adjustments that can be made

Original English: "We're pleased the FAA recognizes that an enjoyable passenger experience is not incompatible with safety and security," said Roger Dow, CEO of the U.S. Travel Association.
Translated Hindi: "This agreement is a step forward in the right direction."
Hindi: " FAA से जाने से प्लीज, हमने सुझाव दिया है कि यात्री

Original English: After learning the lesson of the Patna Serial Blasts the UT police in the view of security have become ready to react quickly to any emergency situation during the Diwali celebrations.
Translated Hindi: As per the direction of Mr. Alok Kumar Singh, the SSP, the UT Police have worked out a foolproof security arrangement for the Diwali celebrations.
Hindi: जलध एएक पत्र पतन के लए प

Original English: 1,800 Soldiers will patrol the major areas of the city in vehicles or on foot, to ensure that the traffic runs smoothly to prevent any bag snatching and to teach the lesson to eve teasers along with any other miscreants.
Translated Hindi: The women, who are to be taken to work in the morning, will be transported in the buses that have multi-axle, air-conditioned, non-stop buses to avoid any untoward incidents. The police in the buses will be armed with alarm bells, which will be pressed whenever a woman

Original English: Female police officers will also be involved along with the PCR, Traffic Unit in that Unit.
Translated Hindi: They will be wearing special uniforms.
Hindi: बह ह वय प राज क री अध कर दिए ज ने के स थ व ना रद त य

Original English: Police officials and officers, doing their duty promptly, will inspect the records of all the other venues including hotels, guest houses, and PG accommodation.
Translated Hindi: They will also take the help of the common service centres and local shopkeepers for the same. Police officials will also assist the local people in registering the details of their guests if they do not have the common service centres in their area. The police officials will also keep a record of marriage parties and other

Original English: The station SHOs have been ordered to set up a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the case.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Station SHOs ne pahle se SIT banaya gaya hai, aur ab gair ke gharo ki bashan ko bhi investigate karna hai.
(2) Translation of a text from Hindi to English
English: The police have arrested a man in connection with

Original English: The responsibility of investigating the VIP sectors of the city along with the markets, malls, etc. has been assigned to the DSPs along with the inspectors.
Translated Hindi: The DSPs shall also be responsible for the security arrangements of the VIPs. It shall be ensured that the senior officers of the naka unit do not leave their posts unless a shift is over. The DSPs shall conduct a review of the naka arrangements every day.
Hindi: श

Original English: Due to the emergency situation and the Diwali festival, senior officials have deployed additional police employees in the control room to facilitate the flow of people.
Translated Hindi: In addition, senior officials are continuously monitoring the situation and will visit the control room in the evening.
Hindi: क्षुध के आगामी कारण और दीवाली त्यौ

Original English: Other than the Director of the PGI and fire department, Principal Director and DHS Sector 16 GMSH and Sector 32 GMCH staff of other dispensaries were also asked to be on high alert for emergencies.
Translated Hindi: Translated to Hindi: अन्यान्तही खींच कर पीजीआई और उच्च तालिका के बावजू

Original English: To teach a lesson to the goons the divisional officers have appointed female police officers and others under the leadership of the NGO's, naming them the "Anti Goon Staff".
Translated Hindi: Our sincere efforts are to put the goons behind the bars.
Hindi: Goons ney aajayi hai toh goondon ko lesson deney ke liye inspector saab ney yahan par 5-6 ladkiyaan aaye hain aur aaj

Original English: The Anti Goon team will be on alert in the crowded market areas and other crowded areas in civilian clothes.
Translated Hindi: Be alert and remain vigilant at all times.
Hindi: भू-मार के आप के घर के अंदर और आपके घर के बाहर भू

Original English: All the SHOs have been ordered to set up 44 posts in the internal parts of the city during Diwali.
Translated Hindi: The posts will be set up in the localities where a lot of crackers are burst in previous years.
Hindi: सभ ग्र आम सख न द क जबरदस त र न बनव

Original English: Also police officials will be stationed at 38 checkpoints on the city borders.
Translated Hindi: They will check the identity cards of the people and if any foreigners are found, they will be detained.
Hindi: भारतीय दल अभी वाहनों को 38 छात्राओं प

Original English: Bird airlifted to safety from North Sea rig released back into wild
Translated Hindi: Hindi: न र थ स र ग पर व श न क बत तक उच चत य व चल द न च ह य षण .
2.

Original English: A bird airlifted ashore after being found exhausted on a North Sea oil rig has been released back into the wild.
Translated Hindi: The black-throated diver, which was found on the Cromarty Firth by a rig worker, was taken to the RSPCA centre in Hauxley, Northumberland. It was then flown to the charity’s wildlife centre in Burry Port, Carmarthenshire, where it was

Original English: The water rail was put on a helicopter to Aberdeen last month before being nursed back to health by the Scottish SPCA at its rescue centre in Alloa.
Translated Hindi: The bird was found in a garden in the village of Torry, near Aberdeen, and is thought to have been hit by a car. It was taken to a vets where it was found to have a broken leg and was put on an IV drip. It was also treated for a number of other

Original English: Centre manager Colin Seddon said: "This water rail was likely a winter migrant from Northern Europe who got caught up in strong winds over the North Sea."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: सेंटर मैनेजर कोलिन सेदॉन ने कहा: “ यह जलरूप के बारे में जूते

Original English: It seems the bird became exhausted and managed to find refuge on the oil rig.
Translated Hindi: We will have to get it off.
Hindi: यह वचन वह तो दबाने की तरह चल रहा है और बांध ग

Original English: He added: "It was unable to fly off again so we were contacted for help."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उन्होंने जवाब दिया है, " उसे फ्लाई करने में विकल्प न था, तो

Original English: The water rail was fit and well by the time it was released.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वॉटर रेइल स्वच्छ और स्वस्थ था जब उसको बाँधा जाना था.
9.

Original English: Is Europe's elite ready to do business with Britain?
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अगर ब्रिटिन दुनियां के मज़ाकबारों को लेकर अपनी इनतियार से

Original English: Business for Britain launched in April with a pledge to bring business together and define what the UK's wealth and job creators want to see changed in our relationship with the EU.
Translated Hindi: Since then we've launched a series of regional events including Cardiff, Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds and London. We've also hosted a number of roundtables with business leaders and politicians including the Prime Minister David Cameron, Nigel Farage, Ed Miliband, George Osborne and Danny Alexander. In June we published our

Original English: To that end, we commissioned the largest and most comprehensive poll of British business leaders asking them for their thoughts on Britain, business and the EU.
Translated Hindi: The results, published today, show how businesses across the country from every sector and region are engaged with the debate.
Hindi: उसके लिये। हम इस लिए नए एवं सबस

Original English: YouGov polled over 1,000 business leaders, broadly representative of Britain's business sizes, sectors and regions.
Translated Hindi: It found that while over half of businesses (53%) felt the UK was prepared for a no-deal Brexit, this was the lowest level of preparedness recorded for over a year.

Hindi: Aap YouGov ne 1000 se jada business leaders ko samjha, yeh

Original English: The conclusions of the poll will come as a surprise to many.
Translated Hindi: The new government will be a coalition between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats. That means the new prime minister will be David Cameron.
Hindi: कई मे न इस न त क म आवश्यकता है क

Original English: We found that the vast majority of businesses are now looking to export outside of Europe, focusing on countries that are modernising and growing while the EU states stagnate.
Translated Hindi: This means that we need to start looking at South America, China and India as the new markets for our goods and services.
Hindi: हमने नवीनतम अनुभाग का जानकारी ल

Original English: They want to see the Government prioritise new trading links with the likes of China, India and Brazil, rather than getting bogged down in the long and arduous process of reforming the EU's arcane institutions.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उन्हें सरकार को चीन, भारत और ब्राज़िल के साथ नए व्यापार घ

Original English: When asked their views on specific policy areas - ranging from monopoly regulation to product laws - the majority of business leaders thought that control of these key competences should be returned to Westminster.
Translated Hindi: Many also called for the abolition of the Scottish Parliament, believing that the Scottish people were better served by a strong central government, or "rationalisation" of the Scottish office or Scottish government. On the issue of the Scottish parliament's powers, the majority of respondents thought that the parliament should have no

Original English: There was general discontent with the Single Market, with businesses saying that the costs of Brussels regulation now outweighed the benefits of being part of Europe's trading area - even 40 per cent of large businesses, traditionally the most pro-European of companies, agreed.
Translated Hindi: Small businesses have been hit especially hard by the cost of regulations. They are less able to bear the costs of these regulations than large businesses, and they have fewer resources to devote to lobbying the EU.
Hindi: वास्तव में वास्त

Original English: Finally, and most tellingly of all, our poll of business leaders found a clear majority wanted to see Britain pursue a course of treaty change and a relationship with the EU that is based on trade, not politics.
Translated Hindi: That is the right approach. The EU should be about free trade, not political union. It should be about co-operation on common problems, not a supranational political project. It should be a partnership of equals, not a transfer union. And much can be achieved if we follow that path.

Original English: This finding, which was reflected across the sizes and major business groups, shows that business is pushing for a "meaningful change" that brings powers back to the UK.
Translated Hindi: This is a major challenge for the country, but I believe that the UK has the flexibility to make this happen, with the right leadership and the right relationships with the rest of the world.
Hindi: Yeh ghoshana, jiske bahut saare vaaron aur maine de

Original English: The stakes are high - achieving treaty change and a better deal for Britain sees a 16 per cent swing towards voting to stay in the EU in a referendum.
Translated Hindi: A 16 per cent swing is the difference between winning and losing.
Hindi: (Sahaj viddhi ka ghatna hai - pashchimi dvara nahin samarthan ke prati jod liye gaye 16% swang se briten ke li

Original English: The Prime Minister should be in no doubt: this poll shows that British business backs his plan for renegotiating the terms of Britain's membership of the EU.
Translated Hindi: If he is successful in his renegotiation, the British people will vote to remain in a reformed EU. This is the time to act. This is the opportunity to seize. The Prime Minister should not hesitate.
Hindi: नयाँ इंग्ल

Original English: It also shows that business expects that renegotiation to make a significant shift in the current balance of power back towards the UK.
Translated Hindi: That would mean that the UK would not have to accept the “four freedoms” that are the basis of the European single market.
Hindi: यह कार्यक्रम विदेशी व्यापार अनुस

Original English: A better deal for British business is possible, and increasingly necessary as the eurozone embarks on the road to closer economic and fiscal union.
Translated Hindi: Here is an opportunity to seize the initiative and negotiate bilateral tax treaties to ensure that UK businesses are able to compete effectively on a level playing field across Europe. All eyes are on the UK to set a new standard for international tax treaties. The UK can and should set a new standard for international tax treaties

Original English: The priority must be jobs and growth in Britain and, as the findings of our poll show, for business this means a renewed focus on trade and a fundamental change in Brussels" regulatory approach.
Translated Hindi: We must act now to deliver trade deals with countries from the US to China, India, Brazil, Japan and Australia, creating the jobs and growth that we need in Britain. We must also prioritise our trade with the European Union and make it work harder for Britain.
Hindi: Kadam ch

Original English: Gazprom's Alexei Miller says pipeline in Bulgaria starts new gas era
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Gazprom अय्यासी मिल्लर से लेकर बुलगारिया में पाइपलाइन की शुरुआत

Original English: The start of construction of the South Stream gas pipeline in Bulgaria marks the launch of one of Europe's largest energy projects, Gazprom's chief said.
Translated Hindi: The launch of the South Stream project in Bulgaria is a milestone in the development of Europe's energy sector, in general, and in Bulgaria, in particular, Gazprom chief executive Alexei Miller told Reuters in a telephone interview. South Stream is an alternative to the Nabucco project, which aims to

Original English: "A landmark event has taken place today: Construction started on the Bulgarian section of the South Stream gas pipeline, the most large-scale and important project in Europe," Gazprom Chairman Alexei Miller said in a statement Thursday.
Translated Hindi: "The South Stream pipeline will help secure Europe's energy security. We expect to launch the first phase of South Stream by the end of 2015 and the second phase by the end of 2018."

Hindi: "आज सुबह एक ऐ

Original English: This project is a key element of energy security of the whole European continent.
Translated Hindi: It will also contribute to the European economy and help meet the EU’s 2020 climate and energy targets.
Hindi: यह प्रकल्प नगरीय सुरक्षा के विशेष अं

Original English: South Stream is meant to add diversity to Russia's export routes through Europe.
Translated Hindi: It will also reduce the cost of gas. The annual capacity of the pipeline will be 63 billion cubic meters.
Hindi: यह आपके सभी पारदर्शिता का अवसर है

Original English: A contractual dispute between Gazprom and its counterparts in Ukraine, which hosts most of Russia's gas for Europe, adds a layer of risk to conventional routes, officials say.
Translated Hindi: Russia has moved its gas to Ukraine's western border, where it is stored in underground tanks, and has contracted to ship it through Poland and the Baltic states, which have not experienced similar difficulties.
Hindi: एक कानूनी विवाद ग

Original English: Miller said the direct connection to Bulgaria, a member of the European Union, means geopolitical risks associated with transit countries are eliminated "forever."
Translated Hindi: Hindi:

Miller said, "The direct connection to Bulgaria means that there are no geopolitical risks associated with the transit countries forever." 

share|improve this answer

answered Jun 24 '12 at 19:58

ncmathsadist
1,212512

add a comment |

Original English: Bulgarian consumers will receive gas from South Stream at a discounted rate once the entire project starts operating in 2015.
Translated Hindi: Bulgarian: Консуматорите в България ще получат природен газ по-ниски цени през цялата работа на пълна капацитет на целия про

Original English: Gazprom said construction should begin in other downstream countries by year's end.
Translated Hindi: The pipeline may be completed as early as late 2010 or early 2011, he said.
Hindi: गज़प रम ने संभालने के लिए अन्य दाग द

Original English: The pipeline is designed for an annual capacity of 2.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
Translated Hindi: It is expected to lower the gas price by 10-15 per cent and bring down the cost of power generation by at least 3 per cent.
Hindi: देखें यह दूरशाली आवंट

Original English: The FAA is easing restrictions on the use of electronic gadgets on airplanes - though chatting on cellphones will still be prohibited.
Translated Hindi: The new rules allow passengers to play video games and watch movies on their mobile devices while the plane is in the air, eliminating the current rule requiring that the devices be turned off below 10,000 feet. However, the phone function will still be barred during flight. The new rules are meant to

Original English: Warplanes attack a store of Russian missiles in the port city of Latakia, an official says.
Translated Hindi: A military source told AFP that the attack on the Shayrat military airbase near Homs at dawn on Sunday, “targeted a warehouse housing a large number of Russian-made missiles.” The military source said the attack caused no casualties. The source did not say if the missiles were Russian-made or were

Original English: It's an apparent continuation of Israel's campaign to keep arms from proliferating in the Mideast.
Translated Hindi: The Israelis are helping the U.S. ship weapons and ammunition to Saudi Arabia, and also helping the Saudis get American-made missiles to protect the kingdom's oil.
Hindi: हिन्दी में इसे अपना प्रभाव

Original English: A federal appeals court blocks a judge's ruling that the NYPD's controversial tactic discriminates against minorities.
Translated Hindi: The NYPD's stop-and-frisk policy was put on hold in August when a judge ruled that it violated the constitutional rights of black and Hispanic New Yorkers. A federal appeals court on Wednesday placed a stay on that ruling, saying that the NYPD must continue using the policy to prevent crime. The policy has

Original English: Nearly 100 African migrants hoping to travel to Algeria die of thirst after their two trucks break down in the middle of the Sahara.
Translated Hindi: The 80 men and 20 women died of thirst after the trucks broke down during the journey through the desert. They had set off from the Nigerien capital Niamey, and were looking to cross into Algeria. The 100 African migrants had been travelling in two trucks before their journey came to

Original English: Experts say violence that left 14 adults and seven children dead is nothing more than random chance, not a sign of growing violence in America.
Translated Hindi: But experts also say adults should talk with their children now about the dangers of guns and violence.
Hindi: एक्सपर्ट्स कहते हैं कि इस चूहे और बच

Original English: Rather than being rattled by the U.S. government shutdown, investors kept their focus on what probably matters more: the Federal Reserve.
Translated Hindi: The Fed is expected to raise interest rates for the first time since 2006 later this month. But its policy outlook will be the subject of much attention, with some economists saying the Fed could also announce a reduction in monthly bond purchases. The Fed is expected to keep the door open for its first

Original English: The California woman plans to challenge what may be a first-of-its-kind citation, saying the Internet-connected eyewear makes navigation easier.
Translated Hindi: A California woman could soon be the first person to face a ticket for using Google Glass while driving. According to news reports, the woman received a $160 ticket for violating a California state law that bans motorists from watching a television while driving. The woman told the newspaper that she was not viewing a television

Original English: Police say they have a video that appears to show Mayor Rob Ford smoking a crack pipe.
Translated Hindi: Toronto Police Constable Tony Vella said Tuesday that investigators have obtained the video through an informant, and are in the process of confirming it is authentic. He said the video is "consistent with what we have heard about the mayor." The video was given to the Toronto Star newspaper by a drug dealer who

Original English: Even close allies keep things from one another - and work every angle to find out what's being held back.
Translated Hindi: But in a marriage, friends and relatives have to keep the secret. So the only person we can be completely open with is our spouse - and how do we do that when we're so well trained to keep things from one another. Sexual intimacy is the only place where we can get what we need

Original English: The Vatican wants to know how Catholic parishes around the globe handle sensitive issues like contraception, divorce and gay couples.
Translated Hindi: The Holy See's office for the laity is set to send a questionnaire to parishes requesting information on how much they spend on charitable work, how they organize their work and the number of volunteers. It will also ask about the most pressing needs of the faithful, including those for catechism classes

Original English: Foreign athletes will perform gymnastics.
Translated Hindi: They will be performing on the balance beam, the vault and
the uneven bars. These gymnasts are also known as rhythmic gymnasts. The rhythmic gymnasts perform
with the help of a ball and a hoop.
Hindi: Yuvaparaaye ghoda par jaanwar

Original English: The MLA from the City Constituency, Balbir Pal Shah, inaugurated the Asiad Circus by cutting the ribbon on Thursday evening.
Translated Hindi: It was a grand function at which many guests from the city and other places came to watch the show.
Hindi: MLA का शहर नगर सीट के लिये असिड सर्कस ट

Original English: The Municipal Corporation Mayor, Bhupinder Singh Sardar, and the former Chairman of the City Improvement Board, Mukesh Tuteja, also attended the event.
Translated Hindi: The Mayor congratulated the staff and thanked them for their dedication and hard work for the development of the city.
Hindi:
राष्ट्रीय निर्माण कार्यक्रम ने शहर को स

Original English: The first performance of the city circus was watched by dignitaries.
Translated Hindi: The second performance was watched by the poor.
Hindi: राजा ने शहर की किरदारी की पहली सद्भावना देखी। न्य

Original English: Asiad circus manager, Raghbir Singh, said that Kenyan athletes will perform gymnastics.
Translated Hindi: They will also do musical and folk dances.
Hindi: एसियाद कार्यक्रम के मृतांक्षी रघ्‍वर सहस‍ता घ‍

Original English: Dwarf clowns are sure to make everyone laugh.
Translated Hindi: They are very friendly and will greet you with a big smile. Dwarf clowns are clown fish that are found in the Indo-Pacific Ocean. Clown fish are one of the best known types of fish. Dwarf clowns can come in a variety of colours and patterns. Dwarf clowns are best suited for

Original English: The flying trapeze will be a particular centre of attraction for the visitors.
Translated Hindi: It is to be arranged by Mr. La Garde, who is the top man of the side show.
Hindi: ल गर्ड ने दक्षिण मण्डल के एक कार्मिक

Original English: He said that focus will be on entertaining the residents.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Wo kaha ke yah focus dabangga residenton ke khayal ka hai.
2. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: He said that focus will be on entertaining the residents.
Hindi: Wo kaha ke yah focus dabangga residenton

Original English: Two YMCA employees charged with sex offences before allegations against Jonathan Lord, Royal Commission hears
Translated Hindi: [Link]
Hindi: दो YMCA की कार्यकर्ताओं ने गैंगरेप के विरोध में आरोपियों क

Original English: Two YMCA NSW employees had been charged with child sex offences before allegations were raised against Caringbah child care worker Jonathan Lord in 2011, the child sexual abuse Royal Commission has heard.
Translated Hindi: YMCA NSW’s Peter Sutherland told the inquiry today that allegations regarding the two YMCA employees were made by a seven-year-old boy. He said the boy told his mother, who reported the allegations to police. The two YMCA NSW employees had been working in a YMCA NSW operated children’s

Original English: But in its opening statement to the Commission it said it had "never dealt with an incident of child sexual assault within its organisation," the Commission was told.
Translated Hindi: The inquiry's findings are due to be released on Monday.

Original English: Chief executive officer Phillip Hare was asked about one case where a YMCA employee was charged child pornography offences, and another when a gym instructor at the YMCA Caringbah Hall was convicted of child sexual offences against children in his care in 1991.
Translated Hindi: Mr Hare said the YMCA had a zero tolerance policy around child abuse and that the men in question had been sacked.
Hindi: उप नुकील अध्यक्ष फिलिप हारे ने

Original English: Mr Hare told Gail Furness, counsel assisting the Commission, he knew about the first case but did not know about the second one.
Translated Hindi: He said he was not aware of any punishments for the first case. He said he was not aware of any punishments for the second case. Mr Hare said he did not know of any reasons why a punishment was not given for the first case. He said he did not know of any reasons why

Original English: He conceded the YMCA's opening statement to the commission was also inaccurate in claiming "there have been external audits of the YMCA that have recognised the YMCA as being at the forefront of child safety."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वे अपने प्रधान वाद को यांनी निर्णय बांध दिया का ही मापदंड ह

Original English: Evidence before the commission is that YMCA was notified that it received the second lowest of four possible ratings in a Department of Education and Communities quality audit in August this year.
Translated Hindi: YMCA contacted the commission to say that it had made a significant improvement within 2 months of this audit, and it has now received a full 5-star rating.
Hindi:
आगामी कार्यकारी आयोग

Original English: Mr Hare, who started with the YMCA when he was 21, conceded management "from myself down" failed by recruiting Lord and failed to make sure staff were clear about their obligations to report child safe policy breaches.
Translated Hindi: "I don't think we have managed to get the policy right," he said. "We've got a lot of policy but we haven't got it right." He said the YMCA "didn't get it right" because it has not been consistent about communicating its policies to its 3,

Original English: Earlier this year Lord was convicted for sexual offences against 12 boys during the two years he worked at the YMCA.
Translated Hindi: He is now serving a prison term of 6 to 8 years. Imprisoned and stripped of his ordained ministry, Lord will not be able to take advantage of the YMCA again in the future.
Hindi: इस साल भारत में

Original English: He was jailed for a minimum of six years.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Wo uske six saal ka jail sentence ke liye dheron mahine ke baad hee nikal lene waala hai.

Hindi: कहाँ से आया है
English: Where is she from? Hindi: Wo

Original English: But Mr Hare rejected the suggestion the YMCA had a cultural problem which prevented staff from reporting Lord's breaches of child safety.
Translated Hindi: He said the organisation had a "zero tolerance" approach and had a strong and consistent response to any child safety issues. "It is a cultural issue and we have made a huge amount of progress over the past 18 months," he said. "You can never say you're free of it.

Original English: Staff gave evidence they observed breaches including Lord being alone with children, babysitting them privately, having them sit on his lap, saying he loved one and letting them play with his mobile phone.
Translated Hindi: The children received sweets and miniature bottles of alcohol on occasions.
Hindi: Staff witness breaches including Lord their alone, babysitting them privately, having them sit on his lap, saying he loved one and letting them play with his mobile phone. The children receive sweets and miniature bottles of alcohol on occasions.

Original English: Danielle Ockwell, who was supervised by Lord and asked for child protection training because she was concerned about his behaviour, testified she found the YMCA Caringbah children's services manager Jacqui Barnat who supervised Lord "very intimidating and hard to approach a lot of the time."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Danielle Ockwell, jisne Lord ke saath child protection training ko diya tha aur useh uske bahuvichar ke liye concerned tha, usne testifying kiya ki woh uska saath Lord ke YMCA Caringbah children's services manager

Original English: The CEO said he did not accept staff's evidence that they were uncomfortable with reporting upwards to their managers.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: विद्युत विपक्षी के कार्यकारी केंद्र सदस्यों ने अपने प्रबंधक स

Original English: Rather, he said, their friendships with Lord clouded their judgements about reporting him.
Translated Hindi: “I think that’s
really unfortunate,” he said.
Hindi: अपने लड़कों के बीच दोस्तीय रिश्तों ने उनक

Original English: Mr Hare said he had provided his view to the YMCA NSW board that the lesson for the organisation from the "Jonathan Lord incident" was "not about reporting" by staff, and the board agreed with him.
Translated Hindi: "This is not about reporting, it's about our culture and our environment and how we handle those issues," he said.
Hindi: Mr Hare said he had provided his view to the YMCA NSW board that the lesson for the organisation from the "Jonathan Lord incident" was "not about

Original English: Mr Hare said the decision to get staff to sign confidentiality agreements soon after the allegations emerged was made by YMCA general manager of children's services Liam Whitley.
Translated Hindi: Mr Whitley was unavailable for comment. The move has also been slammed by the CPSU union, which represents many of the centre staff. CPSU national secretary Michael Tull said that the agreements were "totally inappropriate".
Hindi: Mr Hare ne kaha hai ki staff ke sa

Original English: He said it was intended to avoid contamination of evidence but was "overzealous" and poorly executed.
Translated Hindi: The first officer on the scene, Yasser al-Shamrani, who saw the first gunshot, also came forward to say he was not sure what happened, and his statement was not included in the report.
Hindi: Wo bole it was intended to avoid contamination of evidence but was "

Original English: YMCA NSW was not a child safe organisation at the time Jonathan Lord was employed between 2009 and 2011, child sex abuse expert Professor Stephen Smallbone of Griffith University told the commission.
Translated Hindi: He said that although the organisation had policies to guide staff and volunteers on how to respond to child abuse allegations and ensure child safety, they were not actively implemented in the YMCA at the time.
Hindi: एमआयसी एनएसडी

Original English: He said there were "serious problems" in recruitment, screening, induction, training and supervision of staff.
Translated Hindi: As a result, there was a high turnover of staff. He said many staff were being appointed without satisfactory references. He said that many new staff were not being properly screened and that many of them were not satisfactory.
Hindi: Wo kaha ki “Shikshakon ka yah pr

Original English: The hearing adjourned until December 20.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: रक्षा के अधिकार निर्धारित दिनांक 20 दिसम्बर को. English: The defendant entered a plea of not guilty. Hindi

Original English: Blair says he'd like UK comeback
Translated Hindi: Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair has hinted that he may return to British politics.
Mr Blair revealed that he had been offered a job in the City [of London] in the next few weeks.
He told the BBC: "I am not going to go into more detail than that.
"I have

Original English: Tony Blair said he'd seize the chance to return as Britain's prime minister - but acknowledges a comeback is unlikely.
Translated Hindi: The former Labour Party leader told The Sunday Times he would "always be around" politics, and would be willing to offer his services to any party.
Hindi: Tony Blair कहा कि वह भारत के प्रधानमंत्र

Original English: In an interview overnight to mark the fifth anniversary of his departure from office, the 59-year-old aired his views on various domestic policies.
Translated Hindi: "The policies we are following today are incorrect," he told the programme, adding that the ruling party was blind to the country's social and economic problems and had no new ideas for rehabilitating the economy. "There are a lot of problems, but our government is not able to solve them," he

Original English: Since he stood down in June 2007 after a decade as leader, Mr Blair has largely avoided discussing British politics, confining most of his comments to foreign affairs and his role as envoy to the Quartet of Middle East peacemakers.
Translated Hindi: But with the election of a new Conservative prime minister, Mr Cameron, and the reiteration of Labour’s commitment to a referendum on the Lisbon treaty, Mr Blair was back to making waves.
Hindi: जबकि उसे जनवर 2007

Original English: Asked if he would return to the post of prime minister, Mr Blair was quoted by London's Evening Standard as saying: "Yes, sure, but it's not likely to happen is it, so..."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अक्सर प्रधानमंत्री के पद में क्या वापस जाने की बात की गई है, लं

Original English: He also urged leaders not to turn their backs on the business community following the financial crisis.
Translated Hindi: In a speech to the Confederation of British Industry, he said: “I don’t want to see businesses hunkering down for a long period of time. I want to see them taking advantage of the new opportunities that are opening up.” Hindi: विशेषज

Original English: As crowds of horse-showing experts gathered in Cardiff to battle it out for Horse of the Year, they knew the competition would be tough.
Translated Hindi: The competition was fierce and their horses were at the top of their game. With 3,500 riders and over 25,000 spectators, there was a lot of pressure on both the riders and the horses.
Hindi: समूचा चुनाव

Original English: But nobody was quite ready for three-year-old Fenton Kirkland.
Translated Hindi: On his first day of school, he went to sleep in his desk - and continued snoozing for the entire day! Teachers and classmates alike were in awe, amazed that the boy didn't wake up for the entire day. One teacher said he has a "mental block" to sleep, and

Original English: Not yet in school and just months on from taking his first steps, the toddler and his pet Shetland pony Toffee trotted through the three rounds with ease to take the top prize - leaving their 30 adult opponents trailing behind.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: कई हफ्ते से अभी स्कूल में नहीं और उसके पहले चलने के महीने के

Original English: The inseparable pair - who are the same height - were commended for appearance, behaviour and style at the annual contest run by Sunnybank Equestrian Centre, in Rudry near Cardiff.
Translated Hindi: The centre's owner, Sue Legg, said: "It's a wonderful day, and you can't help but feel the excitement of the day when you see and hear the small children in the show ring." Zoe-Ann, a pupil at Ysgol Erw'r Graig, said

Original English: Taking to the stage against men and women in smart bowler hats, he tipped his flat cap at a jaunty angle and paraded two-year-old Toffee around the ring.
Translated Hindi: Toffee, a black-and-white English bulldog, won Best in Show at the 139th Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, besting a field of 3,000 purebred dogs, and he did it with just three legs. Toffee won Best Puppy in Show at the 201

Original English: Fenton was lauded by judges for natural handling skills well beyond his years.
Translated Hindi: He was elated.
Hindi: फेंटन की यह व्यथितता को अधिक से अधिक वर्ष के बीच से

Original English: And Toffee received top marks for his appearance and personality.
Translated Hindi: He was also kind to animals and children. He was a natural leader and good at making friends.
Hindi: और टैफी अपने परिणाम और व्यक्तित्व के

Original English: Fenton was given Toffee as a third birthday present last March and has practised with the Shetland pony every day since.
Translated Hindi: Fenton is a Welsh Cob and the pony’s name is Favourite.
Hindi: Fenton 3 वर्ष की पालतू ताफ़िस एक तीसरा जन्मद

Original English: His mother Donna, 30, said: "Fenton and Toffee are a great double act."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उसकी माँ डॉना, लड़की 30, कहा: 'फेनट और टॉफी एक शानदार

Original English: They were up against all comers but the two of them walked off with the gold cup and rosette.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वे राजा से बढ़ा भागते हैं, पर दोनों उनके द्वारा गोल्ड कप और

Original English: It was only the second time he had competed with Toffee and we were all ecstatic when he won.
Translated Hindi: In fact, it was the first time he had won anything at all.

Hindi: इस बात से बाद में यह दूसरी बार थे टॉफी के

Original English: Complete strangers in the arena all thought he was so phenomenal they wanted photos taken with him.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उसके पास रैने के पास आने वाले पूरे अभिनेता उसको ऐसे देख कर स

Original English: The youngster, from the village of Nantyglo, near Ebbw Vale, South Wales, is following in the footsteps of his aunt Sharon Howells, who has been showing horses for more than 10 years.
Translated Hindi: He has been competing since he was six and took part in his first show in 2012 when he was just nine years old.
Hindi: यह उभरपूर्वक दिल्ली के अंदर

Original English: Mrs Howells said: "The whole place was electric and everybody was cheering and clapping."
Translated Hindi: She also said: "They were hysterical and the place was bouncing. It was like a football match. It was absolutely amazing and there was a real party atmosphere."
Hindi: Mrs Howells ne kaha: "Whole place ke sath electric tha aur sabhi log ko clap aur cheer

Original English: He was running on sand down the full length of the arena and even though he looked so tiny he did a marvellous job.
Translated Hindi: He fell at the last jump and I was worried that he had been hurt.
Hindi: Wo sand par rehne wala thaa, Arena ke full length par. Wo bahut hi khubsurat thaa. Wo chhutti par ek sath chala gya tha

Original English: Fenton is animal mad - he loves horses, tractors and farms and has got two chickens which he looks after.
Translated Hindi: He is the most caring boy you will ever meet. He has a huge heart and loves animals more than anything. He knows a lot about horses - he's a real country boy - hope that he will have a long and happy life.
Hindi: Fenton जंगली

Original English: The way he has started he'll be at the Horse of the Year show before long - and I'm sure he'll do well.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वह तयारी कर रहा है उसको होरस ऑफ दयर इस बार देखा जाएगा -

Original English: A spokesman for the annual horse show said: "Fenton is only three but he knows how to handle his pony."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: एक अधिकारी ऐसे बजाता है कि वह वाली है कि हर वक्त उसे काल ल

Original English: They are a great team together.
Translated Hindi: They have a very good combination; they are always on the same wavelength.
Hindi: Unko ek jaise mile toh, jab dono same frequency mein hote hai tabhi success milta hai.

3. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: He is a very

Original English: The judges marked Fenton and Toffee on how well they were turned out and the way they presented in the show ring.
Translated Hindi: Toffee was well mannered and showed off her beauty. Fenton used his head well and was very obedient. Well done to you both. I would like to say a big thank you to my sponsors and to my team at home who help me look after my horses and ponies. It is

Original English: They look for good teamwork between the pony and the handler - Fenton and Toffee were the best in the ring.
Translated Hindi: The judges were looking for clear lead work, a neat halt and a good trot. At the end of the day, Toffee was the best pony in the class. He has a very special quality and he is very calm. He is a very good boy and I am very proud of him.

Original English: I'm sure Fenton was helped by his cute clothes, he really looked the part.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Mera Fenton ko apni cute clothes se help mila tha, woh bilkul sahi dikh raha tha.
- Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
खाली पेट दिनेश ने अपन

Original English: China plea paper 'to be overhauled'
Translated Hindi: The Chinese government has promised to overhaul its plea system, after a court in Beijing handed down a suspended death sentence for murder. In a rare move, the Supreme People's Court said the verdict had been reached "inappropriately", and that it had been influenced by "public opinion". The case gained

Original English: A Chinese newspaper that made a front-page appeal for the release of a reporter accused of defamation is to be overhauled, a press regulator says.
Translated Hindi: The publisher of the Legal Evening News, Zhu Junzheng, had been suspended since January for publishing articles that libelled a man, the country's media watchdog said. The man, who only goes by the nickname Gao, had a criminal record. The publisher and the newspaper face a possible fine

Original English: The Guangzhou-based New Express made a rare public plea for the release of journalist Chen Yongzhou.
Translated Hindi: The paper said, it had received a telephone call from Chen in detention. The call, an automated voice said, was from Chen; it also said, "I am being held in the public security department of Guangzhou." It was not clear when the call was made but Chen was last seen on

Original English: But Mr Chen subsequently admitted on television that he had taken bribes to fabricate stories about a part state-owned company.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: लेकिन श्री चेन पर आधारित टेलीविजन में उन्होंने शामिल किया

Original English: Now the New Express is to undergo "full rectification," the regulator said.
Translated Hindi: The regulator also said it was taking the action against the paper because it had "clearly breached" the broadcasting code.
Hindi: अब नई एक्सप्रेस तो "फुल रक्तेज

Original English: The "rectification" order came from the Guangdong Administration of Press and Publication, Radio, Film and Television.
Translated Hindi: Publication of the 10 web novels has been suspended, and the names of the offending writers have been passed to the Guangdong Department of Culture and Tourism and the Guangdong Writers' Association for further action.
Hindi: गुझगौड़ व

Original English: A preliminary investigation showed that Yangcheng Evening News Group's New Express had published several untrue reports about listed company Zoomlion in the period of September 2012 to August 2013.
Translated Hindi: This resulted in the company's share price falling sharply by 38% and causing a loss of more than RMB 1.5 billion to the shareholders of Zoomlion.
Hindi: थरी अभी परीक्षण का आ

Original English: "New Express's editorial management was disordered," the regulator said in a statement.
Translated Hindi: "The first issue of the newspaper, published in Hindi and English, shows a serious lack of quality control. It is obvious that the paper was published without taking the necessary measures to ensure proper quality."
The above text is the part of the text mentioned in the text box below -
Text Box:
The

Original English: It said it had decided to "impose an administrative penalty on Chen Yongzhou by revoking his reporter's license."
Translated Hindi: In addition, "the certificate of registration of the Zhuhai-based newspaper was revoked."
Hindi: यह कहते हैं कि यह न्यूज़ पत्रकार चेन य

Original English: It had also "instructed Yangcheng Evening News Group to undertake a complete rectification of New Express, and recommended they investigate the relevant responsible persons at New Express and immediately revise New Express's leadership team."
Translated Hindi: भारतीय: यह भी यागानी रात राती समाचार न्यूज़ ग्रुप को भी गंभ

Original English: Mr Chen wrote several articles for the New Express alleging financial irregularities at a construction-equipment company called Zoomlion.
Translated Hindi: The claims were based on information from a former company employee. Mr Chen was told by the company’s lawyer to stop writing, but he ignored the warning. He was charged with spreading false information under Article 258 of the Criminal Law and sentenced to two years in jail. Mr Chen appealed, saying that

Original English: After he was detained, his newspaper published two front-page appeals for his release, saying it backed his journalism.
Translated Hindi: The first appeal was published on 7 October 2013. The second was published on 8 October 2013.
Hindi: उनके चीन में हिन्दी पत्रिका ने उनके

Original English: But Mr Chen then appeared on state television admitting he had published false stories for money.
Translated Hindi: He also confessed to fabricating events for his articles and inventing interviewees. “I feel remorse for my actions,” he said. “I falsely reported the news to the public, and deceived the public. I am genuinely sorry for this.” Hindi: लेकिन Mr Chen

Original English: "In this case I've caused damages to Zoomlion and also the whole news media industry and its ability to earn the public's trust," he told state broadcaster CCTV.
Translated Hindi: "I feel extremely sorry and I am willing to compensate the damages I've caused."

Hindi: "In this case I've caused damages to Zoomlion and also the whole news media industry and its ability to earn the public's trust," he told state broadcaster CCTV. "I feel extremely sorry and

Original English: I did this mainly because I hankered after money and fame.
Translated Hindi: One day I reached home to find my wife in tears. She had been totally overwhelmed by the newspapers’ report of my duel with the Mexican, and the subsequent events had made her realize that I was a murderer. I was about to say that I was not, when I saw the pain in her

Original English: I've realised my wrongdoing.
Translated Hindi: Please forgive me.
Hindi: Main apse maafi maangta hun. Maaf kijiye.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4r0K8KgqGqI

OP: Thank you so much for the reply. I really appreciate it. I

Original English: Following Mr Chen's apology, New Express issued a front-page apology, saying it had failed to properly check his reports.
Translated Hindi: New Express's editorial department further apologized yesterday, saying it had made the wrong decision in publishing Mr Chen's articles and it would reflect deeply on the incident. The apology, which was printed on the front page yesterday, did not mention the nature of the wrongdoing or the penalty it would face.
In the

Original English: Several high-profile suspects have made televised confessions recently.
Translated Hindi: In one case, officials said, the suspect was kept awake for more than 40 hours before he confessed. The suspect, a former National Security Agency employee, is accused of disclosing information about the USA Patriot Act to The New York Times, which published a story about it. The NYT article, published

Original English: Experts say confessions are still routinely coerced, despite a change in the law earlier this year banning the authorities from forcing anyone to incriminate themselves.
Translated Hindi: The Law Commission, the Government's independent advisers on English law, is to review the problem...the Government has not yet responded to its advice. The Commission recommended the use of an independent person to facilitate a confession, but the Government dismissed the idea as impractical. It is thought that a third of

Original English: The National President of the Anti-Terrorism Front, Maninder Singh Bitta, will read Shree Hanuman Chalisa along with 10,000 other readers on November 23rd, at an event organised by the Shri Hindu Nyaypeeth at Dana Mandi near the Jalandhar bypass.
Translated Hindi: This would be the largest ever gathering of readers to read Shree Hanuman Chalisa.
Hindi:
English: The National President of the Anti-Terrorism Front, Maninder Singh Bitta, will read Shree Hanuman Chalisa along with 10,000 other readers on November

Original English: This information was provided by Bitta after the chief spokesman of Shri Hindu Nyaypeeth Pravin Dang and Ashwini Katyal, Bhupinder Banga, Surji Jain, Bunty Bajaj, Raman Khosla,Bantu and Aman Sharma, had come to invite him to the Hanuman Chalisa Paath.
Translated Hindi: He said that this is the right time to fight against the discrimination done to the Hindus in Pakistan. He said that he is aware of the sacrifices done by the Hindus in support of the country and therefore, he is ready for this task. He said that he would like to see the Hindus living with

Original English: He appreciated the efforts of the Shri Hindu Nyaypeeth to make children aware of Sanatan Culture.
Translated Hindi: He said that in the age of materialism and technology it was very important for the children to be aware of their culture and tradition to enable them to strengthen their roots and to help them to face the challenges of future. He further added that Sanatan Culture is the true identity of the nation and it

Original English: He said it is also important to give children religious instruction along with worldly education for the unity and integrity of the country.
Translated Hindi: He said it is also important to give children religious instruction along with worldly education for the unity and integrity of the country.
Hindi: Unhone kaha ki vah bhi hamare desh ke disha aur samman ke liye ek bahut tezi se sanbandhit dhar

Original English: US-Mexico drug tunnel with its own railway found
Translated Hindi: हिंदी: अमेरिका-मेक्सिको में बाइक और रेल पर रास्ता पूरा मशीन

Original English: One of the most sophisticated drug smuggling tunnels between the USA and Mexico has been found, complete with its own lighting, ventilation and electric rail systems.
Translated Hindi: The tunnel is just over 2 miles long and is accessible in both countries and is believed to have been used for several years.
अंग्रेजी: एक शानदार दवा निष्पक

Original English: US authorities described the four foot by three foot tunnel as one of the most sophisticated secret passages they have ever discovered.
Translated Hindi: It was so well built that it had lights, ventilation and even an entrance and exit on either side of the border.
Hindi: अमरीका के इलाज का रिपोर्ट प्रसारित कर

Original English: The tunnel, which zigzags the length of nearly six football pitches, links warehouses near Tijuana, Mexico and San Diego, USA.
Translated Hindi: The tunnel is about 150m long and 1.5m wide and has a ventilation system.
Hindi: इस टनल के मुख्य चरण के अंतर्गत टनल की

Original English: The area is filled with nondescript warehouses, making it easier to conceal trucks being loaded with drugs.
Translated Hindi: Like a well-oiled machine, the trucks are offloaded and a truck from a neighbouring state is loaded up. This is a well-oiled operation, with the final destination probably Delhi, but the trucks headed to states like Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The drugs are

Original English: The tunnel was shut down before any drugs made it through undetected, authorities said.
Translated Hindi: The drugs were detected by a drug detection dog. The dog was part of a new program that saw dogs used to search for drugs at the border crossings between the United States and Mexico. The dogs are trained to sniff out drugs by smelling a substance that is similar to the drug they are looking for.

Original English: Authorities seized eight-and-a-half tons of marijuana and 327 pounds of cocaine in connection with the tunnel's discovery, according to court records.
Translated Hindi: The drugs, worth an estimated $60 million, were discovered on March 3 in the San Luis Río Colorado area of Mexico, documents show.
Hindi: उद्देश्य गलती - शंखबंधन

Original English: Three men who authorities say worked as drivers were charged with possession of marijuana and cocaine with intent to distribute.
Translated Hindi: Two of the men were also charged with possession of a firearm and ammunition, according to a news release from the U.S. Attorney's Office.
Hindi: तीन लोग जो उच्चतम अधिकार

Original English: They face prison sentences between 10 years and life imprisonment if convicted.
Translated Hindi: You can also visit the website www.donotcall.gov.in to register your phone number.
Hindi: Kuchh saal ke saath gawaar hokar, iss baar pehle ki shart par, ki agar koi shakhs
koi bhi

Original English: In Nogales, Arizona, smugglers tap into vast underground drainage canals.
Translated Hindi: On their backs, migrants carry loads that weigh almost as much as they do. The smugglers are paid hundreds of dollars per head to drive migrants through a maze of tunnels. They never emerge. The smugglers are paid hundreds of dollars per head to drive migrants through a maze of tunnels. They never

Original English: The tunnel is the eighth major passage discovered in San Diego since 2006.
Translated Hindi: It's 600 feet long, 3 feet high and 2 feet wide, and was dug from Mexico through the Pacific Beach neighborhood into a Mission Valley home. It is the first tunnel discovered in San Diego since 2009.

Hindi: टनन एक पां

Original English: Some of the largest tunnels have been discovered after central Mexico's marijuana harvest in October, which presents drug cartels with a challenge of how to quickly get their product to consumers.
Translated Hindi: The tunnels are often found with hidden rooms, rail systems, water systems and ventilation systems. The tunnels can be used for storage of drugs or for smuggling them to the US. The tunnels are often built with the help of drug runners and smugglers from the US. The tunnels are also used to smugg

Original English: In 2010, authorities found a roughly 700-yard passage equipped with rail tracks that extended from the kitchen of a Tijuana home to two San Diego warehouses.
Translated Hindi: The passage allowed smugglers to transport drugs by cart to the United States and then back to Mexico by foot.
Hindi: वर्ष २०१० में, अधिकारियों ने ज

Original English: Congress candidate Sarhul Ram Bhagat filed his nomination for the Assembly constituency.
Translated Hindi: After filing the nomination, Sarhul Ram Bhagat said that the Congress will win the election. On the other hand, the BJP candidate Kishan Singh said that he will win the election.
Hindi: कांग्रेस उम्मीद

Original English: Besides the BJP and the Congress, the National People's Party and two independent candidates, a total of 7 candidates filed nominations on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: The campaign for the 13 April bypoll to the prestigious seat began on Monday with the BJP and the Congress both announcing their candidates.
Hindi: यहाँ पर भाजपा और कांग्रेस के बेह

Original English: BJP candidate Rajsharan Bhagat, along with his sponsor, deposited his nomination papers with the Returning Officer for the assembly constituency 12-Jashpur on Thursday, which was day 7 after the start of filing of nomination papers for the second phase of the elections to be held on November 19th.
Translated Hindi: The BJP candidate, Bhagat, who is returning once again after winning the assembly election in 2013, filed his nomination papers in the assembly constituency 12-Jashpur against his long-time rival, former Congress Minister Kedar Sahu. Bhagat and Kedar Sahu contested the

Original English: The Indian National Congress candidate Ram Bhagat Sarhul, with his sponsor Ajay Kumar, filed his nomination with the Returning Officer.
Translated Hindi: The Returning Officer then asked Ram Bhagat Sarhul to sign the nomination paper, which he did. He then asked Ram Bhagat Sarhul to sit down and then he asked Ajay Kumar to sign the nomination paper. This is the account of the Returning Officer about the nomination of

Original English: The BJP candidate, Kunkuri Rohit Kumar, filed his nominations along with his sponsor Mohanram and the Kunkuri Constituency independent candidate, Dr. Phoolchand Kujur, filed his nominations for the Assembly Constituency Sector 13 along with his 10 sponsors Mrs. Alpino Khalko, Suben Kerketta, Sukhdeo Sai Naag, Hemant Kujur, Shaniram Bhagat, Walter Kujur, Vikas Kumar Jindal, Mr. Gupta, Murari Lal and Mrs. Sushila Kujur.
Translated Hindi: The two candidates were accompanied by many people from their respective age groups.
Hindi: BJP Kanya Dalit, Kunkuri Rohit Kumar, Kunkuri Assembly Constituency, Sector 13, Dr. Phoolchand Kujur, filed his nominations with his 10 sponsors

Original English: The BJP candidate, Shibshankar Pankaira, filed his first nomination for the Assembly constituency sector 14 - Pathalgaon with his sponsor Tulsiram Kaushik and his second nomination with his sponsor Rajendra Agarwal.
Translated Hindi: He is the national president of the BJP.
Hindi: BJP candidate Shri Shibshankar Pankaira ne sarkari karyakshetra 14 Pathalgaon mein sabhi madhyam se sarkar se panchayat se adhyaksh ki

Original English: Councillors accused Dukpa of turning up at the function without an invitation.
Translated Hindi: The latter had to be pulled up by the chairperson of the function.
Hindi: विधायक दुखपा गति विचारण्यासाठी आले आहे.

Original English: Dupka said that he had been invited by the Food Controller.
Translated Hindi: He had been told that the rice was in the train.
Hindi: Dupka ne kaha ki Food Controller se milne ka invite mila tha. Woh bola ki train me rice hai.
Question 2:
Rewrite the following text in simple Hindi.
English: The police had fired

Original English: Upset by this dispute the GTA members left the function.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Yeh samasya ke karan GTA ke adhikari ne chutti man li. (Translation: Because of this problem, the GTA members took leave.)

Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The children are excited. Hindi: Chidiya baje

Original English: Eight families were given food grain.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: आवारे विद्या अभियान परिणाम दाखिला केला गया
English: The man came to my house yesterday. Hindi:

Original English: The Town President, Amar Singh Rai, Vice President Suk Bahadur BK and other town councillors were present at the event.
Translated Hindi: The Town President laid the foundation stone of the town, where 32 blocks and 8 school buildings are being constructed, in the presence of the Deputy Mayor and the Executive Officer of the Municipality. The Town President also handed over the certificate of allotment of land to the beneficiary families. He said

Original English: British police serve Assange with extradition notice
Translated Hindi: Hindi: London mein Assange ke liye extradition khatam kiya gaya

So, when I run the following code:

$translate->translate("English", "Hindi", "British police serve Assange with extradition notice");
$translate->translate("Hindi", "English", "

Original English: Btitish police served an extradition notice today on WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who has taken refuge in Ecuador's embassy in London and requested asylum.
Translated Hindi: Assange, 41, is wanted in Sweden for questioning in a sex crime probe.
Hindi: एबीटीश आज इस्तमाल सर्विसेज कर रहे विक

Original English: Scotland Yard said they had served a "surrender notice" on the 40-year-old Australian requiring him to appear at a police station, adding that failure to do so would make him further liable to arrest.
Translated Hindi: The notice will remain in force for 28 days, after which it will expire if there is no further action taken against him. The force said it was conducting "one of the most complex investigations in our history", but gave no details. The force's e-crime unit has been investigating allegations that

Original English: Assange faces extradition to Sweden over sex crime allegations, having exhausted his options under British law when the Supreme Court overturned his appeal against extradition earlier this month.
Translated Hindi: He says he fears he will ultimately be sent to the United States for prosecution over the activities of Wikileaks, which he founded in 2006. Assange has been held since the end of June at the embassy of Ecuador, which granted him asylum in August. He has been there ever since.
H

Original English: Fearing Stockholm would pass him on to the US, he sought refuge at Ecuador's embassy in London on June 19, asking the South American country for political asylum.
Translated Hindi: Assange said he feared he would be extradited to Sweden to face questioning over sexual assault accusations, and then on to the US to face espionage charges.
Hindi: Stockholm से अगले में US तक पहुँचने के

Original English: Scotland Yard has "served a surrender notice upon a 40-year-old man that requires him to attend a police station at date and time of our choosing," a spokesman said.
Translated Hindi: The man was arrested under the 2000 Terrorism Act at an address in south London on Wednesday.
Hindi: स्कॉटलआर्ड इलाक में एक पुराने मुख्य

Original English: He remains in breach of his bail conditions.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उनके गुरुकर्म के अनुसार उनकी बेल कार्यदिशाओं के अनुसार विकल

Original English: The embassy declined to comment on the serving of the police notice.
Translated Hindi: The police have served a notice on the embassy. The embassy is not aware of the contents of the notice. The embassy is not aware of any developments in this regard.
Hindi: प्रत्यक्ष कहें कि पुलिस ने

Original English: Assange fears he will be extradited from Sweden to the United States to face possible espionage charges, after releasing more than 250,000 US diplomatic cables on the WikiLeaks anti-secrecy website.
Translated Hindi: In a letter to the Swedish government, published by the Swedish press on Saturday, Assange said he feared Sweden could deport him to the United States to face charges of espionage or reveal his sources.
Hindi: आसानेजस की पहली बात

Original English: Driver speeding at 130mph with hot drink between legs fined £1,000
Translated Hindi: Hindi: हाथों के बीच लगे वापसी फ़ैन्सिंग 130 मील तक बहुत तेज ट

Original English: A motorist has been fined £1,000 for driving at up to 130mph (210km/h) with a hot drink balanced between his legs.
Translated Hindi: He was caught by a speed camera on the M25 in Essex. Police said the man was also uninsured, unlicensed and his vehicle was not roadworthy. He was reported for driving dangerously, using a mobile phone without a hands-free kit, driving without insurance, driving without a licence and driving an

Original English: Andrew Howie, 35, of Tiptree, Essex, was spotted driving his Mercedes Benz on the A120 at Braintree on 27 May.
Translated Hindi: Police officers pulled him over and found the car's roof was jammed in the open position. He was given a ticket for the offence.
Hindi: आन्ड्राव होवी, राजस्थान आणि

Original English: When police stopped him they discovered the takeaway drink between his legs.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Police uske paas se ruk gaye to unhone uske paas se paani piye hue khane ki woh khadha pani nikalne ki dekhbhaal ki.

Q: As you know, that the best way to learn a language

Original English: At Colchester Magistrates' Court Howie admitted a charge of driving without due care and attention.
Translated Hindi: But he was cleared of failing to see the cyclist - who suffered a broken collarbone - and causing him unnecessary suffering. Magistrates heard Howie, who had been driving for 40 years, lost sight of the cyclist when he was forced to stop at a red traffic light. But they heard How

Original English: Seven points added to his licence resulted in him receiving a six-month driving ban.
Translated Hindi: Hindi:
English: He was taken to the police station and charged with driving in a dangerous manner. Hindi:
English: His appeal against the conviction and driving ban was rejected. Hindi:
English: He claimed that the accident was not his fault. Hindi:
English: The accident happened in the early hours

Original English: Howie was also ordered to pay costs of £90 and a victim surcharge of £100.
Translated Hindi: But he is exempted from paying the bulk of the fine because he is on benefits. The court heard that the 27-year-old was on benefits and is unemployed.
Hindi: यहाँ पर Howie ने द्वारा फ़

Original English: Tax on foreign property owners to burst London's bubble
Translated Hindi: Hindi: ब्रिटिश सरकार ने ऑफिस रिटेलर तक अमेरिकी बंगला अवार्ड श

Original English: The Treasury have provisionally costed out the CGT measure but are awaiting a final decision from Mr Osborne, who, in the 2012 Budget, introduced a 7% rate of stamp duty for homes costing more than £2m and annual charges for buyers who choose to hold homes in a company rather than as individuals.
Translated Hindi: However, he has since signalled his concerns over the VAT on property transactions, which could be reformed in the Autumn Statement.
Hindi: आईटीआईटी संबंधित संपत्ति क

Original English: Already the stamp duty take for residential property in the boroughs of Westminster and Kensington & Chelsea, which stood at £708 million in the 2012/13 tax year, exceeds the combined total for Northern Ireland, Wales, Scotland, the North East, North West and Yorkshire and the Humber put together.
Translated Hindi: The stamp duty take for properties in Kensington & Chelsea in 2012/13 was £363 million, more than the amount raised in the whole of Wales. It is clear that the UK Government’s decision to increase stamp duty rates to 7% for properties worth more than £2 million has had

Original English: Mr Cook said: "Following increases in stamp duty of high value homes and the introduction of associated anti-avoidance legislation, it is very difficult to argue that high value property is under-taxed irrespective of the effect of the out-dated council tax system."
Translated Hindi: English: Mr Cook said: "Following increases in stamp duty of high value homes and the introduction of associated anti-avoidance legislation, it is very difficult to argue that high value property is under-taxed irrespective of the effect of the out-dated council tax system."

0

Please log in or

Original English: "But this move could make some foreign investors reticent to buy property in London or current owners reluctant to sell," he added.
Translated Hindi: "It is not a time for complacency."
Hindi: "लेकिन ये शर्त लोधन में रेटिंग विदेशी निवेशकों

Original English: Prime property - the top 5% to 10% of the housing market by price - in the affluent south-west London belt, which stretches from Fulham to Wimbledon, has increased by a record 11.8% over the past year.
Translated Hindi: The research, carried out by the property website Rightmove, found that the most expensive area of London, Kensington and Chelsea, had seen a 10.1% rise over the same period. The hotspots are being driven by an influx of nervous London workers fleeing the capital for a more spacious home

Original English: Prices in central London continued to show steady year-on-year growth of 5.6% but were overshadowed by a burgeoning "domestic market" with the city's south west, north (7.4%) and east (6.5%) all experiencing an uptick, according to research from Savills.
Translated Hindi: The north west, which has been underperforming the market for some time, showed the strongest price growth with 7.9%, with the south east close behind at 6.7%. The south east and east of London were the only two regions to record double-digit annual growth.
Hindi

Original English: Scientists have shed more light on how the movements of a dog's tail are linked to its mood.
Translated Hindi: Using magnetic resonance imaging, they have revealed which parts of the brain are activated when dogs wag their tails.
Hindi: वैज्ञानिकों ने कुत्तों की शरीर में ग

Original English: Earlier research had revealed that happy dogs wag their tails more to the right (from the dog's point of view), while nervous dogs have a left-dominated swish.
Translated Hindi: The study with the 22 dogs showed that the tails of the happy dogs, as measured by the degrees of movement, were wagging to the right between 53 and 74 percent of the time. But the tails of the nervous dogs were wagging to the left between 46 and 69

Original English: But now scientists say that fellow canines can spot and respond to these subtle tail differences.
Translated Hindi: They are called para-linguistic cues, and they convey meaning without spoken words.
Hindi: अबवे विश्वास करते हैं कि दोस्त देवजाल

Original English: The study is published in the journal Current Biology.
Translated Hindi: It found that an enzyme known as prolyl endopeptidase (PEP) breaks down the protein tau in the brain. PEP is found in high concentrations in the frontal cortex, an area of the brain that is substantially damaged in Alzheimer's disease.
Hindi: इस

Original English: Prof Georgio Vallortigara, a neuroscientist from the University of Trento, said: "It is very well known in humans that the left and right side of the brain are differently involved in stimuli that invokes positive or negative emotions."
Translated Hindi: The same was not known in reptiles though they had separate sides of the brain too. Scientists could not understand exactly why the lethargic reptiles were not able to run away or escape from danger. It has been found that the left and right sides of the brain of reptiles are similar to

Original English: Here we attempted to look at it in other species.
Translated Hindi: It is a very interesting research. We want to know whether this happens in other species, whether this is a common phenomenon, and we think it is.
Hindi: यह नहीं है कि इसे अन्य Species में

Original English: He added that just as in humans, for dogs the right side of the brain was responsible for left-handed movement and vice versa, and the two hemispheres played different roles in emotions.
Translated Hindi: With a brain size one thousandth that of a human, the dog may have evolved ways to compensate for its lack of cognitive capacity and complex cerebral organization. The left side of the brain is associated with the right side of the body, and vice versa, so that the left hemisphere governs the right

Original English: To find out more about how dogs react to the lop-sided tail wags of other dogs, the researchers monitored the animals as they watched films of other dogs.
Translated Hindi: They found that dogs spend more time looking at tails shown to be moving to the left than to the right. They also noticed that dogs tend to sniff the tails shown to be moving to the left more often and for more time.
Hindi: To find out more about how dogs react to the l

Original English: They measured the pets' heart rates and analysed their behaviour.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उन्होंने बिल्लियों की वातावरण बढ़ाई. 

Identify the Hindi translation of the following text:
English: The man is standing on

Original English: It will probably not be long before we understand why their tails sometimes go one way, sometimes the other
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: Mere paas tumhare pita ne apne bhai ko ek gadda lekar chale gaye the. Mujhe aur tumhe bahut kafi samajh mein nahin aata. Tumhare pita ki uthh gayi thi

Original English: Prof Vallortigara said: "We presented dogs with movies of dogs - either a naturalistic version or a silhouette to get rid of any other confounding issues, and we could doctor the movement of the tail and present the tail more to the left or right."
Translated Hindi: “Right golden retriever, left golden retriever, right golden retriever, left golden retriever.” "We found that dogs are listening to the movie, and they are selecting a tail that is most similar to the one they just saw. This is an important finding because it means that dogs are

Original English: When the animals saw an otherwise expressionless dog move its tail to the right (from the tail-wagging dog's point of view), they stayed perfectly relaxed.
Translated Hindi: But when the tail wagged to the left, they tensed up and watched the dog intently. The dogs could even tell the difference when the human partner looked at them but did not speak; the animals stayed calm only when they saw the human partner look at them and then wag their tail to

Original English: But when they spotted a tail veer predominantly to the left (again from the tail-swishing dog's point of view), their heart rates picked up and they looked anxious.
Translated Hindi: "They are reading the tail. They can tell which way the tail is pointing from the position of the head," says Dr. Virányi. "The tail is a very important signaling device. It's like a flag. You can tell which way it's waving just by looking at the head

Original English: Prof Vallortigara said he didn't think that the dogs were intentionally communicating with each other through these movements.
Translated Hindi: However, he added that it was possible that the dogs were using some sort of rudimentary language to convey messages to each other. He suggested that the dogs' tails and head movements may have served as sign language for commands such as, "Stop, let's play, or come on." Hindi:

Original English: Instead, he believes that they dogs have learned from experience what moves they should and shouldn't feel worried about.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उसको ये लगता है कि ये घर के एक प्यारे कुत्ते का जवाब है। ये

Original English: He said: "If you have several meetings with other dogs, and frequently their tail wagging one way is associated with a more friendly behaviour, and the right side is producing a less friendly behaviour, you respond on the basis of that experience."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उसने कहा, "तुम अन्य कुत्तों के साथ मनोविज्ञान अवसरों में भी दो

Original English: The researchers say the findings could give owners, vets and trainers a better insight into their animal's emotions.
Translated Hindi: A team of researchers from University of Sussex, UK, and the University of Helsinki, Finland, has discovered that horses can recognise the emotions of humans who have been kind to them in the past and those who have been unkind. The research team trained 36 horses to link an image of a person

Original English: Dog behaviour expert John Bradshaw, a visiting fellow at the University of Bristol's school of veterinary science, said this was not the first study to examine whether left and right were important to canines.
Translated Hindi: "There is evidence that dogs have a sense of left and right, but more so for right and wrong," he said. "The left hand and right hand are less important. Dogs seem to have a sense of right and wrong. But I am not sure how they could work out left and right

Original English: Last year a team from the University of Lincoln found that dogs turn their heads to the left when looking at an aggressive dog and to the right when looking at a happy dog.
Translated Hindi: The scientists did this experiment by showing the dogs a photograph of another dog. A year later the researchers repeated the experiment but this time, instead of a photograph they showed the dogs a video. The result was the same, the dogs turned their heads to the right when looking at a happy dog and to

Original English: And in another research paper from the University of Victoria in Canada, he said: "Dogs were more likely to approach a robot dog when its 'tail' was made to wag left rather than right, rather than becoming anxious - the opposite way around to the Italian study."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: और अनेक सर्वे रिपोर्टर सेंटर की विश्वविद्यालय, केन्द्र के अ

Original English: He said the differences could be because the dogs in the different studies were not fully interpreting the animals in the films or robo-dogs as canines.
Translated Hindi: Dogs have a lot of history of human association, and it's possible that they're interpreting a lot of non-verbal communication that's going on in the films.
Hindi: वह बोला कि यह विकास अनुस

Original English: A study of how dogs responded to real dogs could help, he explained.
Translated Hindi: "They show that they understand what the dog is feeling, and they seem to be trying to help the dog out of a stressful situation. This is an important first step toward understanding the basis of empathy in humans." Hindi: एक अविवाहित प्र

Original English: "While there is considerable evidence from many different mammals that the two sides of the brain are used for different purposes, much of the detail still has to be hammered out - and dogs are no exception," he said.
Translated Hindi: "Breed-wise, we know that border collies excel at tasks that require high levels of visual recognition and memory, while other breeds, such as sheepdogs, excel at tasks involving spatial navigation. As far as we know, this is the first evidence that there is a difference in brain anatomy between

Original English: However, given the ease with which their behaviour can be recorded, it will probably not be long before we understand why their tails sometimes go one way, sometimes the other.
Translated Hindi: In fact, some scientists believe that, because the tail is used for balance, it is more likely to be swivelled when the lion is moving sideways, rather than when it is moving forwards or backwards.
Hindi: परन्तु उनकी बात

Original English: Arctic Monkeys postpone Glasgow gig due to Alex Turner's illness
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Aarctic Monkeys ke Glasgow concert ko postpone karne ka irada hai, Alex Turner ki bimari se

share|improve this question

edited Feb 1 '12 at 17:03

asked Feb 1 '12 at 15:31

Original English: Rock band the Arctic Monkeys have postponed a gig in Glasgow after their lead singer was diagnosed with laryngitis.
Translated Hindi: The band had been due to play at the SECC in Scotland's largest city on Saturday night.
Hindi: अर्टिक मॉन्क्यूल्स की कल से ग्लासगो म

Original English: The Sheffield group were scheduled to perform at the Hydro venue in the city on Friday.
Translated Hindi: However, the concert has been cancelled due to the outbreak of coronavirus in the UK.
Hindi: शीफ्ॉड ने उन्हें प्रति दि का संगीत प्रसार

Original English: However, lead singer Alex Turner's illness has forced them to reschedule the show.
Translated Hindi: The band will now play the show on 1st September instead. Turner has suffered a throat infection and will also miss the band's appearance on Tonight with Jonathan Ross on BBC1 on Friday.
Hindi: पर्यायवाची है लेड

Original English: The band's announcement came after they were forced to similarly postpone a gig at the LG Arena in Birmingham on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: The band's last-minute cancellation of a concert in London last Tuesday left fans furious as they had paid £50 to see the band. A spokesman for the band said: "Due to a technical problem, we have to cancel this evening's concert. We are very sorry for the inconvenience caused. We

Original English: In a statement on their official website, the Arctic Monkeys said: "Following the decision to postpone the show at the Birmingham LG Arena tonight and after seeking medical advice, Arctic Monkeys must also postpone the show at the Glasgow Hydro on Friday, November 1."
Translated Hindi: "We're all absolutely gutted to have to do this, particularly as the shows have been so well received.
"Both shows will be rescheduled for a later date, we hope to have these confirmed by the end of the week." Hindi: In a statement on their official website, the Arctic

Original English: "Alex Turner has been diagnosed with laryngitis and is regrettably not able to perform."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: "अलर्क टर्नर को लैरिंगटाइटिस लग रहा है और उसने अपने र

Original English: The show at the LG Arena in Birmingham will now take place on November 20 and the show at the Glasgow Hydro will now take place on November 21.
Translated Hindi: Tickets for the shows in both cities remain valid for the new date.
Hindi: एलजी एरिया में बिमिंगम के शो का दिनांक नवम

Original English: All tickets remain valid for these shows.
Translated Hindi: No refund or exchange.
Hindi: इसे लेकर जिस तरह से फीस जारी हैं वह स्क्रीडिंग्स अब

Original English: We wish to apologise to all ticket holders for any inconvenience this has caused.
Translated Hindi: All tickets will be valid for the rescheduled date, to be announced in due course. For any further information, please contact us at [email protected]
Hindi: हम दुष्कर्म करने के लिए सभी

Original English: Please contact the customer services at the box office you purchased your tickets from for any further assistance.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: पहले टिकट की विक्रेता जिसने आपको टिकट प्राप्त किया है, उसने सु

Original English: Pope Francis to name first cardinals in February
Translated Hindi: Hindi: पॉप प्रधान फर्नांसी को फरवरी में पहले सांसद को नाम
दे रहे ह

Original English: Pope Francis will create new cardinals of the Catholic Church for his first time on February 22, the Vatican announced Thursday.
Translated Hindi: He will make 19 new cardinals, including 16 from the outside of Europe, in a move that the pontiff hopes will better reflect the Church’s global reach and help it overcome the challenges of the modern world.
Translation: एवन डी की साक

Original English: Cardinals are the highest-ranking clergy in the Catholic Church below the pope, and they're the ones who elect popes, so Francis will be appointing his first group of men who will ultimately help choose his successor.
Translated Hindi: Cardinals are always men, and they're usually above the age of 65, because that's when they are eligible to vote in the secret conclaves during a papal conclave. This is Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio, who was elected pope. He's the son of Italian immigrants, and

Original English: There are now 201 cardinals.
Translated Hindi: 109 will be voting, 92 will be non-voting. Those non-voting cardinals are the ones who will be participating in the conclave. So, in the end, 201 cardinals will vote, but only 115 will be able to elect a pope.
Hindi:

Original English: However, once a cardinal reaches 80 he is no longer permitted to participate in the election of a pope -- this falls to a group of 120 "cardinal electors."
Translated Hindi: Each cardinal elector must be a bishop or has been a bishop himself, and must be under the age of 80 at the time of the election.
Hindi: लेकिन, जब कार्डिनल एक 80 व

Original English: In a statement announcing the news, Father Federico Lombardi, a Vatican spokesman, said a meeting of all the existing cardinals would be held before the ceremony to elevate the new cardinals, known as a consistory.
Translated Hindi: The seniority of the senior cardinals is determined by the number of years they have served as a cardinal. The three senior cardinals are the Italian Angelo Sodano, 80, the dean of the College of Cardinals, the American William Joseph Keeler, 75, who heads the church

Original English: "Pope Francis has decided to communicate his decision to convoke February's consistory in advance in order to facilitate the planning of other meetings involving the participation of cardinals from different parts of the world," Lombardi said.
Translated Hindi: "The Holy Father had initially thought to communicate his decision in the course of December but he decided to do so now in order to facilitate the meetings of the Council of Cardinals and the presidents of the episcopal conferences. The Pope intends to communicate his decision to the cardinals chosen personally, but having anticipated

Original English: Jack Valero of Catholic Voices said that by February, the number of cardinal electors was likely to have dropped.
Translated Hindi: So the cardinals will be old men, and many of them will be from developing nations. The College of Cardinals is, in fact, getting younger and more cosmopolitan. A quarter of the cardinals are now from the developing world. So the next pope is likely to be a man from the

Original English: He said usually a pope would name as many cardinals as was needed to raise the number of cardinal electors back to 120 and as many cardinals aged over 80 as he wanted.
Translated Hindi: But, he said, he made no promises.
Hindi: वह कहा जब एक पोप अग्रणी सांसदों की संख्या में ज

Original English: Next year's consistory would be significant because it would be the first since Francis was elected in March this year, Valero said.
Translated Hindi: "We are going to have a lot of new cardinals," he said, adding that a number of them would be from the so-called 'third world' (where Pope Francis has said he wanted to appoint more cardinals). The new cardinals will be invited to a special consistory in the

Original English: At the moment there is a sort of bias towards Europe and especially towards Italy.
Translated Hindi: There is a great demand from Italy for the type of language teaching which is being offered in this institute, and I am certain that if we are able to satisfy the demand there will be sufficient work for at least one more teacher.
Hindi: Abhi tak Europe aur Italy ke beech ek k

Original English: "It will be interesting to see whether the new Pope will nominate cardinals from the rest of the world to restore the balance," he said.
Translated Hindi: "He will also try to enhance the image of the Church in the developing world. He has to try to win back people's trust and confidence, especially in the aftermath of the sexual abuse scandals."
Hindi: "Yah dekhna bhi jaruri hai ki vaha kya pope

Original English: Forty percent of Roman Catholics are in South America, but they have a tiny number of cardinals.
Translated Hindi: Only one of the last five popes was from the southern hemisphere.
Hindi: रोमन कैथॉलिक धर्म की पांचतांव शताब्दी सात

Original English: The cardinals will also be the first to be chosen since Francis formed the Council of Cardinals, a group of eight cardinals from around the world tasked with looking into ways to reform the church.
Translated Hindi: The council, which began meeting in 2013, has suggested a number of high-level ways the pope could overhaul various aspects of the church and its governance.
Hindi: इस लिये काफी बहुत गरीब ज

Original English: In the past the Pope decided everything on his own.
Translated Hindi: He issued an order by which people were to be baptized. If the order was disobeyed, the person was punished. The Pope was not elected by the people. He was appointed by the King or the Emperor. The Pope used to control all the lands of the civil government. The Pope considered himself

Original English: "Now Francis has selected these eight cardinals to help him," Valero said.
Translated Hindi: "The cardinals are the closest advisors to the pope, so there is a good chance that one or two of these cardinals will be his successor."
Hindi: "फ्रांसिस को हमारे द्वारा ए

Original English: He said it was "quite possible" that Francis would ask the cardinals for advice.
Translated Hindi: The pope said he was aware that many of his cardinals wanted to remain in Rome in their current positions, but added that he wouldn't be afraid to ask them to "move to other parishes or other dioceses". He said he wanted to make the church more "collegial".

Original English: But we've not been in that situation before -- it's all completely new.
Translated Hindi: We've been to the moon, we've got a lot of experience of space flight, but we've never had to do anything like this. I think we're all looking forward to it. It's all very exciting and we're all very keen to get going.
Hindi: Par hamare

Original English: Valero said popes typically elevated bishops from large places to the position of cardinal but that Francis was "full of surprises -- so we don't know who he'll name."
Translated Hindi: It is a crucial appointment for Francis because the cardinal will head the congregation that supervises the Vatican's finances and its real estate holdings. The cardinal would also become a member of the all-important Congregation for Bishops, which is responsible for the selection of bishops around the world.
Hindi:

Original English: GM recalls some new pickup trucks in U.S. to fix seatbacks
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अमेरिका के पुलिस ने गेम्स ट्रायल्टर्स के नए ट्रक के सीट बैक

Original English: General Motors Co is recalling nearly 19,000 of its all-new 2014 Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickup trucks to repair a problem with the manual reclining seatback, according to a notice from U.S. auto safety regulators on Friday.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: General Motors Co (जनरल मोटर्स को) ने अपने पुराने डिज़ाइन के साथ एक नई

Original English: On some of the trucks, the front seats may have a defect in the reclining mechanism.
Translated Hindi: This can cause the seatback to move backwards when the seat is moved, and increases the risk of injury in the event of a front-end crash. 
Hindi: एक चौथी चाल के साथ के आगे

Original English: As a result, the seatbacks fail to comply with federal auto safety standards on head restraints.
Translated Hindi: They also fail to comply with the federal motor vehicle safety standard 202 for driver positions. The head restraints are not positioned to protect the driver from whiplash injury in the event of a rear-end collision.
Hindi: यह ताजगी विभ

Original English: "If the vehicle is struck from behind, the head restraint may not properly protect occupants, increasing the risk of injury," according to the notice posted on the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration website.
Translated Hindi: "If the head restraint is not properly adjusted, the risk of injury to the driver or front passenger is increased in the event of a crash."
Hindi: "यदि कार भीषण आगे बाहर पी

Original English: The recalled models were built between August 1 and September 10.
Translated Hindi: 2007, and have VINs between 1ZVFT82H875340507 and 1ZVFT82H975390925.
Hindi: इस पर निर्धारित वैक्यूट

Original English: GM's truck roll-out began in June and represents the most important vehicle launch for the No. 1 U.S. automaker since its 2009 bankruptcy restructuring.
Translated Hindi: GM's new full-size trucks share an all-new architecture and are lighter and stronger than their predecessors. They also are more fuel efficient and available with more features, including better safety features and new technology that includes infotainment and connectivity systems and new safety features, such as forward collision alert, which warns

Original English: GM told truck owners about the defect in the first half of October.
Translated Hindi: GM should fix the problem or offer to buy back the truck.
Hindi: जी.एम. के जीपी.एस. ने अप्रैल भारत और इंडो

Original English: NHTSA could not review the owner notification letter due to the 16-day government shutdown, which tempered auto sales growth in October.
Translated Hindi: The letter was sent to NHTSA on 11/01/2013.
Source: http://www.autonews.com/article/20131114/RETAIL05/131119939/more-auto-sales-expected-in-december
Hindi: एसआई

Original English: Sales of the Silverado and Sierra trucks, which were redesigned for the 2014 model year, were up about 20 percent during the first 10 months of the year, GM said on Friday.
Translated Hindi: But the pickups are not selling quite as well in India as they do in the U.S.
Hindi: शिलवडो एवं जीएमआई ट्रक उपलब्धि

Original English: In October, GM sold 42,660 Silverado and 16,503 Sierra pickup trucks.
Translated Hindi: In the same month, Ford sold 28,909 F-series and 10,786 Super Duty pickups.
Hindi: आपको परिचय के साथ यह दोस्तों के साथ ब

Original English: GM shares were up 1.4 percent at $37.47 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday afternoon.
Translated Hindi: The company is due to report quarterly results before the market opens on Monday.
Hindi: GM के शेयरों न्यूयॉर्क स्टॉक एक्सचेंज पर

Original English: An Obama voter's cry of despair
Translated Hindi: Hindi: एक अमेरिकी कांग्रेस वोटर की विनाशकामना की कहानी
- Translate the following text from Hindi to English:

Original English: I voted for President Obama twice, sharing hope in possibility of change
Translated Hindi: for America. I am now deeply disappointed and heartbroken by the non-inclusive and divisive response of President Obama to the killings of Dr. George Tiller, and his possible role in the prevention of the death penalty for the Boston bombers. I ask President Obama to reverse his position on the death penalty

Original English: He says Obama has had worthy efforts thwarted by GOP obstructionism
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: वह ऐसा कहता है कि अबामा को बिगड़े राजनीतिक विपक्ष के आव

Original English: Obstructionism can't excuse Obamacare website woes, drone attacks
Translated Hindi: and NSA surveillance.
Hindi: आगामी वेबसाइट बाधाओं का छोड़ना नहीं आंतरिकी की आप

Original English: Obama's 2008 campaign memoir is a sad reminder of what might have been
Translated Hindi: . The book compares favourably with David Plouffe's The Audacity of Hope, which is refreshing, but also shows how much of the promise that ran through Obama's campaign was ultimately wasted.
Hindi: ओबामा की 2008 की र

Original English: Nathaniel P. Morris is a second-year student at Harvard Medical School.
Translated Hindi: He recently published an article in the Boston Globe, which he titled, “The Hippocratic Oath: A time for change?” In it, he argues that the Hippocratic Oath should be amended to include modern knowledge and values.
Hindi: नथनल प मरस

Original English: I'm reading a terribly sad book these days.
Translated Hindi: The words go right through me, and I can't get over the thought that death must be very painful.
Hindi: मैं इस दिनों एक बहुत दुखी किताब पढ

Original English: It's a book that I thought would uplift me during the doldrums of second-year medical school, and renew in me a sense of hope.
Translated Hindi: It did just that. It's a beautiful and insightful book about life and death, from a wise old doctor who's seen a lot and doesn't seem to have lost his sense of wonder. A great book for someone who's feeling a little lost, or a little afraid of life.
Hindi

Original English: It's called "The Audacity to Win," and it's a memoir of Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign.
Translated Hindi: With the election less than a month away, the Democratic nominee has been on a whirlwind campaign trail that has taken him from coast to coast. The book is a chronicle of how he won the nomination and the election. It's also a behind-the-scenes look at his political rise and how he

Original English: When I'm finished with my patient write-ups at night and get into bed, the book returns me to a time when politics inspired millions and speeches could take your breath away.
Translated Hindi: It takes me back to a time when the nation was in recession and the President was so unpopular that he almost lost his own party's nomination for a second term. And yet, somehow, we came through it all.
Hindi:
Maine aaj raat ko meri bhaaee

Original English: The election turned out to be a landslide, and news anchors paused to reflect on the historic nature of the hour.
Translated Hindi: Congress swept to a huge majority in the face of a strong BJP challenge. The BJP's main leader, L K Advani, resigned in the wake of the defeat, claiming that the BJP's defeat was a punishment for its hard-line campaigns against the minority Muslim community. The Congress' victory was widely

Original English: My classmates cried with joy, and my parents saved every newspaper they could find.
Translated Hindi: But I was worried that I would be treated as a freak. I was afraid that they would make me stand out and bully me. I was afraid that they would embarrass me. I asked my mother to consult with the school about the situation. They said that I could go back to the school where

Original English: A young team of visionaries was headed for the White House, and the nation was ready for change.
Translated Hindi: The political landscape was shifting, and a new president was needed to lead this change. The young candidate was Barack Obama. Soon after his election, the new president was faced with a crisis of historic proportions: the worst financial meltdown since the Great Depression. The situation called for bold action. The President directed

Original English: During Obama's transition to office in 2008, he had an 82% approval rating.
Translated Hindi: Now it is down to 52%.
Hindi: ओबामा ने अप्रैल २००८ में नजदीकी शपथ लेने

Original English: And then I close the book.
Translated Hindi: And in my head I can hear the voices of the characters, or they are reading the end of the book to me. Some characters are sad, some happy. And that's how I feel when I write. I write because I have to, because I want to, because I want to feel

Original English: Cutting to the present is a rude awakening, like snapping out of a dream.
Translated Hindi: The process of cutting through the past, which happens in a nanosecond, is an act of will. The accomplishments of the past feel like the dreams of detachment, of a way of life that is long gone. They need to be brought back to life, to regain their dignity in the present

Original English: It's hard to remember those days of optimism -- they seem a distant memory, a sad reminder of opportunities gone by.
Translated Hindi: But I would like to take a moment to reflect on the past, and to examine the progress that has been made.
Hindi: यह बात अगर दबाएं तो यह बहुत ब

Original English: Change indeed happened, in the years since I cast my first ballot.
Translated Hindi: We have seen how quickly a government's policies can make a difference, not just in the lives of the American people, but in the world. Together, we have made our country, our government and our political system stronger. And I believe we have also made our democracy more inclusive, more accessible,

Original English: It was simply nothing I could have imagined.
Translated Hindi: My heart pounded as I stepped into the dungeon. I wondered what this place looked like before all the torturing and killing.
Hindi:
Source: https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-best-translation-of-J-K-Rowlings-Harry-Potter-and-the-Sorcerers

Original English: I credit Obama with great and varied accomplishments, from the passage of the Affordable Care Act to our military exit from Iraq, the end of "don't ask don't tell," to the killing of Osama bin Laden.
Translated Hindi: But the moral and political foundation of Obama's presidency is his embrace of American exceptionalism.

Hindi: मैं अमेरिका के एक विशिष्ट और विकासित सफ

Original English: Moreover, I believe that partisan obstructionism has upended too many efforts to push our nation forward: immigration reform, a public option for health care, and closing the base at Guantanamo Bay, among others.
Translated Hindi: The Senate should not be a place where the minority can prevent the majority from holding a vote. We should not be beholden to a 60-vote threshold to advance the people's business.

Hindi: मेरा विचार है कि पार

Original English: But, after the countless times in which I have found myself defending the Obama administration to colleagues and peers, I've reached a limit to the explanations that I can provide.
Translated Hindi: I understand that there are many people who are frustrated with the current state of affairs, but when I see people trying to make the case that the Obama administration is somehow worse than the Bush administration, it really makes me stop and think. I'm not defending the Obama administration's failures here. There are

Original English: I've reached a point of political despair.
Translated Hindi: I'm voting for the first time in a presidential election, and I'm terrified. I'm not sure who I'll be voting for, and I'm not sure that it matters. I'm not sure that either of these candidates can do anything to reverse the rising tide of inequality in this country.

Original English: Republican obstructionism cannot explain allowing the bugging of foreign leaders, nor having drones strike innocent children overseas.
Translated Hindi: The right-wing media has been doing a good job of spinning the story, but the simple fact is that this is exactly the kind of behavior we should expect from an imperial presidency run amok.
Hindi: सार्वजनिक मुकामित

Original English: It cannot explain having the National Security Agency collect data on the private lives of Americans, nor prosecuting whistle-blowers who reveal government wrongdoing.
Translated Hindi: It cannot answer why the United States invaded Iraq, or why we continue to occupy Afghanistan. It cannot explain the recent near-doubling of our annual military budget, though we are no longer threatened by any other nation. It cannot explain why the United States spends more on its military than the next

Original English: It cannot account for assassinating Anwar al-Awlaki, an American citizen, without a trial, nor shirking public funding and spending limits during presidential campaigns.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह जिसे प्रतिनिधित्व में आपसे दिलचस्प और नंबर की जरूरत हो

Original English: It cannot justify the findings of a report that says the White House's efforts to silence the media are the "most aggressive ... since the Nixon Administration."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह विषय पर एक सम्पादकीय रिपोर्ट की आधार पर इस बात को व्यक्त

Original English: And, most recently, it cannot excuse the failure to design a simple website more than three years since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law.
Translated Hindi: All Americans deserve the same, and all Americans should have access to coverage and care, no matter who they are.
Hindi: Aur ab kuch dino se, Website ke taraf se, Affordable Care Act (ACA) ki signing kiya gaya tha, aur yeh ab iske li

Original English: I don't know if this is what I should have expected.
Translated Hindi: But a lot of things that I saw, a lot of things that I heard, a lot of things that I read about, all seemed to be happening around me. I can't say that I was not prepared for it, but I can't ever say I was prepared for it. I don

Original English: If, at 18 years old, I was supposed to figure out that governance may contradict the political campaigns that precede it.
Translated Hindi: If, at 18 years old, I was supposed to understand the intricacies of politics and the political process. If, at 18 years old, I was supposed to have the experience, the knowledge, and the wisdom to make the decisions that could impact my life, and the lives of many

Original English: Obviously, elective office isn't a predictable course, as the opposing political party and random events, such as the Newtown massacre, will shape our public conversation.
Translated Hindi: But you can at least try to keep your agenda in mind.
Hindi: प्रत्येक विधायक अपने चुनावी पद पर नहीं आकर्षित

Original English: Yet, of all of the examples that I have listed above, they largely seem to be of the administration's own choosing.
Translated Hindi: What I have found to be the most interesting, however, is that when the administration has a chance to choose which examples to select from the list, they invariably choose the one that best suits their needs.
Hindi: की प्रवेश पर विशेष

Original English: That is what troubles me most of all.
Translated Hindi: It is not so much the absence of justice, but the existence of the law itself. The law is unjust and therefore useless.
Translation:
Hindi: Ye mujhe sab se jyada dukh deta hai. Yeh to nami nahi hai, kuchh bhi n

Original English: I voted for Obama again in 2012, but not because I was excited by his candidacy.
Translated Hindi: I voted for him because I was excited by his opponent.
Hindi: मैं अबमा अबमा अबमा अबमा अ

Original English: Mitt Romney presented a confusing and unrefined alternative who could not seem to lock down his policies or his positions.
Translated Hindi: He seemed to lack a firm sense of what he stood for and what he wanted to do and perhaps even why he wanted to do it. He kept getting tripped up by facts he had just recently said he agreed with. He could not seem to find a way to smoothly explain his position on health

Original English: I felt that a second term for Obama, free from the pressures of future elections, would fulfill the hope that we had heard of for so long.
Translated Hindi: I was not disappointed. He has a firm grasp of the important issues facing America and the world, and he will lead us to a brighter future.
Hindi:

mujhe yah lagta hai ki baris 2nda terma me obama ko chheen ke chhota

Original English: Still, as Obama's approval rating sank below 45% this week, returning to 2008 through that book has become that much harder.
Translated Hindi: His cool persona has not aged well. He has become one of the most polarising figures in American politics, a man who is adored by his supporters and intensely disliked by his critics. He is also now a polarising figure in the world of international relations. This is a very different Obama from

Original English: It makes me yearn for the many promises that disappeared.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Yeh mujhe dard deti hai, jo kitne manye promises samapt ho chuke the. 

- Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: It makes me yearn for the many promises that disappeared. Hindi: Yeh mujhe dard deti

Original English: This week I was reading the portion of the book describing how Obama suffered a huge loss to Clinton in the Pennsylvania primary.
Translated Hindi: I was reading the text with the help of my dictionary. I felt sorry for the way the poor man was treated. It must have been very painful for him. I heard a talk show on the radio where Obama’s wife was the guest speaker. She was asked how she felt about her husband’s

Original English: At a post-mortem campaign meeting, he told his staff that they needed to get back on track and stay true to the purpose of their cause.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अट पोस्ट-मॉर्टम कैंपेगन में, उसने कीटकी की टीम से बात की कि व

Original English: "I want us to get our mojo back," he said.
Translated Hindi: "I am not worried about the future as much as the present."
Hindi: "Mujhe hamare mojo ko wapas laane ke liye chahiye." Mujhe aaj ke liye darr nahi hai as much as aaj ke liye."

q = "

Original English: We've got to remember who we are.'
Translated Hindi: I've got to remember who I am. I'm a policeman. We fight evil. We don't serve it.
Hindi: Mujhe yakeen hai ki hum hamesha is se juda rehna hai. Hum police hain, hum is se khatra keh

Original English: It's five years later, Mr. President, and I couldn't agree with you more.
Translated Hindi: The country is at an impasse. It's in trouble. But not for the reasons you think. I think it's time for us to start looking at the military industrial complex. We've been using it as a scapegoat to cover up our mistakes for too long. And I think it

Original English: The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Nathaniel Morris.
Translated Hindi: I am a student at Washington University in Saint Louis and am working on my Masters Degree in Public Health. I have been working on a project called “Culturally Tailored Diabetes Education for South Asian Americans,” and this commentary is part of that project. I am not affiliated with the American Diabetes Association

Original English: Clive Palmer claims PM Tony Abbott has conflict of interest over parental leave scheme
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Clive Palmer claims PM Tony Abbott has conflict of interest over parental leave scheme.

I'm not sure if that's good English, but it's not much better in Hindi. It's very important that it is translated correctly. In fact it's vital. If it's not,

Original English: Billionaire MP Clive Palmer says Prime Minister Tony Abbott has a conflict of interest over his parental leave scheme because his daughters might get pregnant and benefit from it.
Translated Hindi: Palmer said the Coalition's $5.5 billion scheme would create a "clique of wealthy women" who would vote for the government at the next election. He said he would introduce a private member's bill to scrap the scheme.
Hindi: Millioner Bhaishah Clive Palmer MP

Original English: The mining magnate, who is in a dispute about paying a $6 million carbon tax bill, made the claim as he tried to brush off questions about whether he had a conflict.
Translated Hindi: "I'm a mining magnate," Mr Forrest said. "I have no interest in the carbon tax. I want it scrapped." "I've got no interest in the scheme. It's a dog, it's a dog. I don't care about it. I don't care if it

Original English: The Palmer United Party could control up to four votes in the Senate that may be crucial in deciding if the carbon and mining taxes are axed.
Translated Hindi: The party's leader, Mr Clive Palmer, says he will back the government in the Senate if it scraps the carbon and mining taxes.
Hindi: पालमर यूनिटी पार्टी को सदन में म

Original English: But Mr Palmer claimed it was only ministers who could have a conflict of interest and said Mr Abbott's daughters stood to personally benefit from policies.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: परन्तु संसद की व्याख्या करने वाले मंत्री के मुताबिक, सार्वजनिक क

Original English: "He's got a major conflict of interest when it comes to paid parental leave because if any of those daughters get pregnant, he'll have a direct interest whether they get leave or not," Mr Palmer said.
Translated Hindi: "And he's got an interest in the company that makes the handbags, and that's why he's treating women badly." Hindi: वह दुश्मन अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी क

Original English: Two months after the election, the electoral commission officially declared Mr Palmer the winner of the Sunshine Coast seat of Fairfax by 53 votes, after a recount.
Translated Hindi: Mr Palmer said he hoped to work with the new government for the good of the nation.
Translation:
चुनाव दो महीने पहले दिन, कुलियों की आधार पर

Original English: Mr Palmer called for overhaul of election counting to speed up the process.
Translated Hindi: He has also demanded that the election process should be made more transparent, which will be best possible through electronic voting.
Hindi: मै Mr. परम्परा ने निर्वाचन कांड की धन

Original English: Tony Abbott's daughters Frances and Bridget.
Translated Hindi: They are the young daughters of the Prime Minister of Australia, Tony Abbott. Frances is 24 and Bridget is 22. Both of them are graduates, Frances in history and Bridget in psychology. They have both been to Australia and they have both been to, I think, the United States

Original English: Should this election be decided two months after we stopped voting?
Translated Hindi: Translation: इस चुनाव में हम अपनी वोटशीथ अंतरालवोर होने पर ही निर्णय कर

Original English: "We need to have a better system," he said.
Translated Hindi: "It's a waste of time, a total waste of time and money."
Hindi: "Hum is tarah ka system ko kharab hona chahiye," wo bola. "Zaroori nahin hai, kharche ke bina jaisa aur kuch

Original English: Why is it that we shouldn't have a system where you can walk in, punch your details into a computer, vote immediately and have a result at 6.30 that night?
Translated Hindi: The problem is one of security and one of the reasons why we had the old electoral roll system.
Hindi: क्यों है, कि आप अपने डिटेल्स को कंप्यू

Original English: Mr Palmer also criticised the use of pencils to mark ballots.
Translated Hindi: He said this would make it easier for people to change votes without detection.
Hindi: दूसरे राज्यों में प्रशा के प्रविष्टि के लिए प

Original English: Is it because they can rub out the result if someone doesn't like it?
Translated Hindi: Hindi: I mean, do they have the right to change the final results? If the answer is in affirmative, what is the legal basis and whether it is a democratic practice?

I can't translate this, I'm not a native speaker. Please correct my translation if it is wrong.

english-to

Original English: In this day and age having a pencil seems extraordinary.
Translated Hindi: But we can’t be careless with a pencil that has been with us since childhood.
Hindi: यह जी हाँ, दिन का एक लेपटॉप अनसंभव है

Original English: The Electoral Commission has been studying options for electronic voting and recently released a joint discussion paper with New Zealand.
Translated Hindi: The paper includes a model which gives New Zealanders the opportunity to vote electronically and through traditional polling places. The research indicates that electronic voting could add significantly to election costs and result in a lower turnout. It would also mean that groups who historically have low turnout would continue to be under-represented in

Original English: Mr Palmer, 59, said his policies included an international airport for the Sunshine Coast and he would take "very seriously" his new job.
Translated Hindi: He said the airport would be the largest in the country and would bring 100,000 jobs to the region.
Hindi: महर्ज़ हेल्पमैन, ज़िन्दगी के दिन

Original English: Public office is about public service.
Translated Hindi: It is not about power or position. Public service is a privilege that you serve with humility, dedication and selflessness. It is about serving the country and the people, with love, honesty and compassion.
Hindi: जनता का सेवा राज

Original English: "We seek no reward, except the reward of history that we can at a critical time serve this community," he said.
Translated Hindi: "And I think we left an indelible mark on that city."
Hindi: हमारा इन तरह का कार्यवाही नहीं करने का स्वाद ह

Original English: Because of this the plaintiffs had to suffer.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इसके करने के कारण पीड़िताओं ने अपने दर्द का अनुभव करने के ल

Original English: Addressing those gathered for the occasion, the Bar Association President, Ramesh Singh Negi, expressed strong indignation at the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.
Translated Hindi: He said that the Bar Association is not against the government. It is against the policies of the government. The government has failed to control the crime rate. The government is least bothered about those who are the real sufferers- the public. The government has merely paid lip service to the problems being faced by

Original English: He said that the growing number of attacks on the advocates and their families shows that the criminals have become fearless.
Translated Hindi: He stated that the attacks on advocates have been increasing since the previous Government was in power.
Hindi: Usne kaha ki yeh maha bhayankar pareshani ki khabar hai. Pichle sarkar ke time se yeh prashnichak dh

Original English: They are not afraid of the police and administration system any more.
Translated Hindi: They know that they can fight and the media and the people all over the world are with them.
Hindi: Yeh police aur administration kisi takleef ka samna nahin karne wale hain. Unhe pata hai ke yeh phir se ladenge aur media

Original English: Citing various such attacks taking place at different places he said that, if the lawyers themselves are not safe, then we can surely understand how much less safe is the general pubic.
Translated Hindi: Moreover, even if some sections of people are given the license to carry and use arms, then it would only increase the level of violence. He made a fervent appeal to the society to come out of the vicious cycle of violence. Hindi: इस टैबल

Original English: RBS suspends two forex traders
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: अंग्रेजी: RBS वॉर्डेन ट्रेडर्स को बंद किया है.
A: अंग्रेजी:

Original English: Royal Bank of Scotland has suspended two traders in its foreign exchange division according to two people familiar with the situation, in another sign that the global probe by regulators into the suspected manipulation of the currency market is rapidly gaining traction.
Translated Hindi: The bank is the latest to suspend traders following the disclosures by Bloomberg News that Barclays Plc had fired four employees in its currency unit as authorities investigate allegations that traders at some of the world's biggest banks conspired to rig currency rates. RBS suspended the two traders, who were based in New York

Original English: Some of the world's largest banks, including UBS, Barclays, Deutsche Bank and RBS, have confirmed they are co-operating with regulators in investigations into the world's largest financial market, where $5.3tn changes hands each day.
Translated Hindi: The probe into the $5.3tn-a-day foreign exchange market, which is 40 times bigger than the daily volume on the New York Stock Exchange, is being led by Britain's financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). In a statement on Friday, Barclays, which declined to

Original English: The two traders would be the first RBS employees to be suspended in the widening probe that echoes the Libor interbank lending manipulation scandal.
Translated Hindi: “I am very disappointed because what I have done is not illegal and I have done nothing wrong,” said one of them, who asked not to be named. The men were suspended in the past week, the second source said, adding that the suspensions stemmed from concern about electronic trading records. There

Original English: The bank, which declined to comment on the suspensions, confirmed this month that it has received requests for information from regulators.
Translated Hindi: The lender is co-operating with the authorities, it said.
Hindi: तकनीकी और व्यावसायिक तरीके का व्यवस्थ सहज हो

Original English: "Our ongoing inquiry into this matter continues and we are co-operating fully with the FCA and our other regulators," the bank said two weeks ago.
Translated Hindi: "We are very sorry for what happened and we are determined to put things right." Hindi: "Hum is par anumodh karenge aur hum FCA aur hamare kuch saathiyon ke samarthan mein aage badhne ke lie taiyar hain.

Original English: Last month, people close to the situation said that RBS had turned over records of emails and instant messages to the UK regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, sent to and from a former trader.
Translated Hindi: People close to the situation said the bank had also turned over documents related to a separate investigation by the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Hindi: इस मई में, जो कोई निवेदन देख र

Original English: This trader, Richard Usher, left RBS in 2010 and is understand to have be given leave from his current position as European head of forex spot trading at JPMorgan.
Translated Hindi: He has been a trader at the bank for more than a decade.
Hindi: यह व्यापारी, रिचार्ड युशर, आरबीएस के 2010 म

Original English: Rohan Ramchandani, head of European spot trading at Citi, went on leave this week, while Matt Gardiner, a former senior currencies trader at Barclays and UBS, was suspended by Standard Chartered this week.
Translated Hindi: It's unclear whether they are cooperating in the ongoing investigation, which is being led by the New York attorney general's office, according to a person familiar with the matter. The investigations follow a two-year inquiry led by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Justice Department into whether traders at the banks manipulated the

Original English: None of these traders have been accused of any wrongdoing.
Translated Hindi: They have not been charged with any crime. They have not been convicted in any court of law. They have not been found guilty in any court of law. They have not been accused of any crime. They have not been found guilty of any crime. They have not been convicted of any crime.

Original English: Mr Usher's instant message group included bankers at Barclays and Citigroup, people close to the situation said.
Translated Hindi: The group also included "several hundred other users," said the people, who requested anonymity because they are not authorized to speak to the media.
Hindi: वहाँ आधारित पर्सनल डिस्क्रिप

Original English: UBS said this week it had taken action against some of its employees after the Swiss regulator, Finma, said it was investigating suspected manipulation of the foreign exchange market at a number of Swiss banks.
Translated Hindi: इस दिन एयर उब्स ने दोस्तों की स्थिति के विवलपरीक्षण के लिए फ

Original English: At least six authorities globally - the European Commission, Finma, Switzerland's competition authority Weko, the FCA, the Department of Justice in the US and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority - are looking at allegations that bankers colluded to move the currencies market.
Translated Hindi: The banks accused include Citigroup, RBS, JPMorgan Chase, UBS, HSBC and Goldman Sachs.
Hindi: अभी तक के तीन शहरों में से एक विश

Original English: HSBC, Citigroup, JPMorgan and Credit Suisse have also launched internal probes or received requests for information from regulators, said people familiar with the situation.
Translated Hindi: Bank of America Corp and Deutsche Bank AG are also under scrutiny, the people said. The banks declined to comment.
Hindi: HSBC, Citigroup, JPMorgan and Credit Suisse के साथ भी आइन्टरनल प्रो

Original English: Banks are scouring through years" worth of instant messages and emails to search for instances of wrongdoing.
Translated Hindi: The hunt for evidence has spread to foreign financial institutions that are now building in-house units to scour through the messages and emails of their workers. They are also hiring contractors to screen the employees" communications.
Hindi: Banko ne apne bachche batein ko hamesha ke liye

Original English: News about the probes has rattled traders in an area that has been one of the bigger profit drivers of investment banks' trading units in past years but which has been challenged this year as low volatility in currencies cuts opportunities for speculators.
Translated Hindi: The Indian rupee has been a rare bright spot for banks, which make money on both sides of trades in the currency. The currency has gained more than 4 per cent this year against the dollar, despite a sharp widening of the current account deficit in the second quarter. The rupee's relative

Original English: Some bankers have tried to play down the affair by saying the vast and highly liquid foreign exchange market is almost impossible to manipulate, but senior traders are saying this is not necessarily true.
Translated Hindi: Senior traders at a major bank said that, while it may not be easy, it is possible for traders to move large amounts of money into a foreign exchange position in order to move the market. They also said that because the market is so large and so liquid, it is possible to move the banks

Original English: A senior trader said that despite the huge volume of daily foreign exchange trading, the fragmentation of liquidity between different trading platforms and banks" increasing use of their own internal platforms meant that "you can start to get an impact on the market at quite small ticket prices."
Translated Hindi: The FX market is often seen as "quite a dirty market" because of the widely varying quotes from different banks, traders said.
Hindi: एक पुराने एकत्री के नाम के व्यवस

Original English: The news came on the same day as Credit Suisse announced it had dismissed a trader at its London exchange traded funds desk this week after he had caused a nearly $6m loss late last year.
Translated Hindi: The bank said it had acted after a review revealed a trader had made a "significant error" in executing a large order for US exchange traded funds. The disclosure came hours after the New York Times reported that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission had opened an investigation into whether Credit Suisse had manipulated the price

Original English: The bank promptly notified the relevant authorities and has been co-operating with its regulators.
Translated Hindi: All transactions are being monitored. The bank has put in place a remediation plan
Hindi: बैंक अनुमति के तहत वह सहमति नॉतिफ़िक़

Original English: "We are confident the trader acted alone and that the matter has been contained," Credit Suisse said.
Translated Hindi: "There has been no impact on our clients, clients' assets or the firm itself."
Hindi: "Hum shuruat se anmda shakti ko samajhte hai ki kaamwali kisi bechara kaam par hi rahega, aur yehi

Original English: The students studying various courses, including technical and administrative courses, will be able to exercise their right to vote.
Translated Hindi: The B.Ed. students will start registering themselves from Monday.
Hindi: विद्यार्थी जो वार्ता बीएड और हिंदी विद्या म

Original English: The University Vice-Chancellor wrote to the governor seeking permission to hold elections.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: विश्वविधालय के विद्युत गुप्त अध्यक्ष ने प्रदेश के गैरभ

Original English: The University Students' Union had demanded to begin the election process.
Translated Hindi: But the election Commission did not agree. The Union also demanded to put the name of the previous candidates for the election on hold. But the Election Commission did not agree. It is now decided that the election will be held by the end of October.
Hindi: विश्व

Original English: They also organised a petition to support the campaign and make their voices heard by the university administration and college management.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उन्हें ईस घोषणा के लिए एक अपने वोट प्रदर्शन आदेश के साथ व

Original English: The students enrolling in over two dozen courses including B.Tech, MBA, Pharmacy, Biotechnology, Bioscience, Tourism Management and Paramedical Science held on the campus, will be able to elect their representative.
Translated Hindi: The election will be held on the campus between 9 am and 2 pm.
Hindi: Students ko B.Tech, MBA, Pharmacy, Biotechnology, Bioscience, Tourism Management and Paramedical Science ke 25 courses me se ek se jyada enrol kiya hua

Original English: More than six thousand students will be getting their first opportunity to exercise their franchise.
Translated Hindi: They will be casting their vote for the first time in their life. 1,000 students will be casting their vote for the first time in their life.
Hindi: मुख्यमंत्री श्रीडेक बेनरी

Original English: The Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Ashok Kumar, said that the university has sought permission from the Governor for the election.
Translated Hindi: He said that the university has the largest number of colleges in the country.
Hindi: वीस-काउंसलर डॉ. अशोक कुमार ने कहा कि विद्य

Original English: Once approval is obtained the election date will be announced.
Translated Hindi: The time, date, process for submitting nomination papers, voting etc. will be communicated to the members at least 30 days before the election date.
Hindi: Jab voter liya jayega tab vote ki date batayi jaegi. Nominations ki date, voting ke li

Original English: He said it is the responsibility of the college administration to hold elections in other colleges.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: He said that it is the responsibility of the college administration to conduct elections in other colleges.
English: Rahul Gandhi was born in a family of politicians and is a member of the 14th Lok Sabha. Hindi: Rahul Gandhi was born in a family of politicians and he is a member of

Original English: Many colleges do not want to hold Student Union elections in their campus.
Translated Hindi: The reason is that once the Student Union is formed, they have to listen to the students. The principal of their college becomes their servant. Therefore, the management of the college does not want to hold elections. But it is a wrong idea. More than half of the students are happy with the Student

Original English: However, due to the lack of unity among the students, elections were not being held.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Par abhi tak satkar bina aadharit vivad ke roop me nahi hota.

Original English: The Union organised a petition for elections.
Translated Hindi: The petition was signed by 5,000 persons.
Hindi: संघ ने वनशब्द से 'चुनाव' के लिए मांग लिया. 5000

Original English: Akash Jaiswal, Division Organiser ABVP
Translated Hindi: , spoke to the media on the sidelines of the protest by students of Banaras Hindu University against the arrest of AMU students. He stated that the arrest of Aligarh Muslim University students was condemnable as they were only raising their voice against the Citizenship Amendment Act in a democratic manner. He also

Original English: After Diwali permission will be sought from the district administration to hold elections in colleges.
Translated Hindi: The college administration is ready for this. We have to together make this a grand success. If we make it a success, then the students will have their own voice. In order to make it a success, we will have to work with dedication. We will have to work with full sincerity. We

Original English: The unclear views of various colleges is also making it difficult to hold elections.
Translated Hindi: The Congress wants to hold elections but the BJP and others have not allowed it. This is the reason why elections have not been held in Haryana.

Hindi: संकटवादी विचारवादी व्याख

Original English: People purchased a lot of utensils as well as gold and silver on the occasion of Dhanteras in the capital.
Translated Hindi: Gold and silver price also increases on this day. This day is also called 'Dhanatrayodashi'. Many people buy gold or silver on this day. Dhanteras is also called 'Dhanvantari Jayanti'. It is believed that on this day, the Lord of Ay

Original English: Sales have increased by 20 to 30% since last year.
Translated Hindi: We sell products in 3 major cities, and have many clients.
Hindi: Humne saal me 20 se 30% tak jyada product bech sakte hain. Hum 3 mahatvapurn dillion me bhejte hain aur hum

Original English: People crowded the jewellery shops in Simla.
Translated Hindi: They were eagerly waiting to get the new design of the ring. The goldsmiths were busy making the rings. They kept the rings in the showcase. Some people were waiting in the hall and others were looking at the rings. People of different ages crowded the shop. The young men were also busy

Original English: The utensil shops set up in lower Bajar to Maal road were crowded.
Translated Hindi: Vendors were busy in displaying the utensils and asking the customers to buy them. Most of the utensils were in copper. The frequent use of these utensils is extremely beneficial to health. According to Ayurveda, copper is the best. The utensils in copper are used in everyday life

Original English: Although inflation had plagued these items, people did not seem to be penny-pinching while purchasing on this auspicious occasion.
Translated Hindi: The price of the items, however, seemed to have been reduced in comparison to the previous years, as was obvious from the scanty number of people on the stalls. The stalls that had been put up for the sale of electronic items, which had been the most expensive, were the most crowded.

Original English: The auspicious times for purchases on Friday were from 7:52 am to 10:12 am, 1:56 pm to 3:37 pm and 6:17 pm to 8:12 pm.
Translated Hindi: The auspicious times for sales on Friday were from 7:52 am to 10:12 am, 1:56 pm to 3:37 pm and 6:17 pm to 8:12 pm.
Hindi: शुभ अवध

Original English: Large crowds gathered in shops on all the three auspicious times in Simla and the suburbs.
Translated Hindi: This was also true of Amritsar, Ludhiana, and Jalandhar. In Lahore and Kasur, the crowds were small, but there were many who went to the gurdwaras and other places to see the procession. In Peshawar, the people gathered in the

Original English: There wasn't even a place to stand for people in the lower bazaar in Simla.
Translated Hindi: But the bazaar was crowded with people.
Hindi: ब द व र व ल द ग न ब द व र क न ल ए न ष ट थ ल लग

Original English: Every shop, large and small, was crowded.
Translated Hindi: Young and old, rich and poor, rich and poor, came out to the streets to buy their favorite sweets. The seller of sweets came out with trays full of sweets. They called out "Kaju Katli, Kaju Katli” loudly. People were buying sweets everywhere. People were buying

Original English: When the thirteenth day of the Kartik month is celebrated as Dhanteras it is considered to be a sign of a Happy Diwali.
Translated Hindi: Therefore, people buy gold, silver and utensils on this day. The day is considered to be very auspicious. The first day of the Diwali is called Dhanteras. On this day, the merchants, business men and the traders keep open their shops. People buy new utens

Original English: Supreme Court upholds Obama health care law
Translated Hindi: – but says employers may be able to opt out.
Hindi: एचिस्को सरकार का क्लास निवास लागि ऑप्ट कर दिया

Original English: In a major victory for the Obama administration, the US Supreme Court today ruled Barack Obama's signature health care law is constitutional.
Translated Hindi: The court's 5-4 ruling upholds the most far-reaching social programme enacted by the Congress in decades.
Hindi: Obama ke sarkar ke liye ek majoor vijay ki khabar, Ameirika ke Supreme Court ke ristrant tutne ke bad

Original English: By a 5-4 vote, the justices ruled the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act's individual mandate - which requires citizens to buy health insurance by 2014 or else pay a penalty - was constitutional under the taxing power of the government.
Translated Hindi: Justice John Roberts, known as a conservative, wrote the majority opinion. The court's four liberal justices dissented. Justices Antonin Scalia, Samuel Alito, Clarence Thomas and Chief Justice Roberts voted in favor of the law. Justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Elena

Original English: Chief Justice John Roberts sided with the four more liberal members of the court while Justices Scalia, Thomas, Alito and Kennedy dissented.
Translated Hindi: It was a victory for the Obama administration and its allies in the health care industry, which argued that the U.S. government needs to have the authority to regulate the health insurance market. The health care industry was pleased by the decision, as was the Obama administration. The National Federation of Independent Business,

Original English: The court also upheld the remaining sections of the 2700 page law, and further held that the health care law's requirement that states increase Medicaid eligibility or else lose all federal Medicaid funding is not unconstitutionally coercive.
Translated Hindi: For the same reason, the court also upheld a requirement that employers with at least 50 employees provide health insurance or pay a penalty. The court also upheld a requirement that insurers offer coverage to all applicants, regardless of pre-existing health problems.
Hindi: मजबूत

Original English: The suit to block the law was brought by 26 states and the National Federation of Independent Business.
Translated Hindi: A federal judge heard arguments from the Obama administration and opponents of the law in August. In his ruling, Judge Roger Vinson said the mandate to carry insurance was unconstitutional. He also said the law’s requirement that everyone buy insurance or pay a penalty was invalid.
Hindi: यह न

Original English: The law was vigorously opposed by each of the major Republican presidential candidates during the 2012 primary season, including presumptive nominee Mitt Romney.
Translated Hindi: Many Republicans in Congress also opposed the law. Romney and other Republicans claimed that the law would hurt job creation and result in a new tax on the middle class. In reality, the law imposes no new taxes and does not raise taxes on the middle class; it would, in fact, reduce taxes on

Original English: It's true that we cannot even move without money.
Translated Hindi: But money is not the only thing that makes the world go round. Love, compassion, cooperation and understanding also make it go round.
Hindi: Seki, jahaan hum jahan mein na jayein, yeh hamein aatma gyan to de. Par p

Original English: Money is one of the most important requirements for survival, but considering it as the most important thing is not in our best interest.
Translated Hindi: Money is just a medium of exchange. It is the relationship and the quality of life that really matters.
Hindi: धन एक ज़बरदस्त जीवन के लिए अत्‍

Original English: We celebrate Dhanteras on  Krishna Trayodashi in the month of Kartika.
Translated Hindi: On this day, we worship Goddess Lakshmi and Lord Kuber to get prosperity in our life. Godess Lakshmi helps us to get money and Lord Kuber helps us to get money. It is a custom to buy gold or silver on this day.
Hindi: आम

Original English: Kuber, the lord of wealth, and Yama, the lord of death Yama are worshipped during Dhanteras.
Translated Hindi: The word Dhanteras is derived from the combination of two words Dhan (wealth) and Teras (13th day of the Hindu calendar). So Dhanteras is the day of Goddess Lakshmi and Lord Kuber, the divine to get wealth.
Hindi: कु

Original English: Money plays an important part in our religion and life.
Translated Hindi: It is the main source of living for a person. With the help of money, a person can fulfill his wishes and desires. Money is the main source of happiness in our life. It is the only thing which can bring happiness to a person. It can fulfill the dreams of a person. Money

Original English: Money is neither good nor bad.
Translated Hindi: It is indifferent. It can help to achieve good ends or bad ends. It can be used to help the poor or exploit the rich. Thus, money, like any other material thing, is neither good nor bad; it is only a means to an end. So, it is the use to

Original English: It is our attitude towards money that is good or bad.
Translated Hindi: Money is not the root of all evil, evil is the root of all money.
Hindi: Humare ishwar ke sevan se paise ka vikas ho raha hai. Paise ka sevan hi sarvashreshth hai, paise ka sevan hi sar

Original English: There is nothing more valuable than wealth that is used for the well-being of mankind, but if wealth becomes the cause of ego, then it is of no value.
Translated Hindi: – Daji Bhagwan
Hindi: यह जान परम वलुा है , ज़्यादा वह नहीं पाना जो मनुष

Original English: Wealth should be earned with a sacred objective and should also be spent on sacred objectives.
Translated Hindi: Mahatma Gandhi
Hindi: धन को धने व र न के ल ए ज़र र धन आदर च ह य े ब च द न

Original English: It is the duty of everyone to earn money for the well-being of the family.
Translated Hindi: Without money, one cannot live even a day. The importance of earning money can be known to the one who works hard and earns money. We have to spend a lot of money to run our lives. We all know that without money, we cannot live happily. It is the responsibility of the husband

Original English: There should also be some sense of social expenditure, but the tendency to the unlimited accumulation or creation of wealth by any means can be bad for our conscience and personality.
Translated Hindi: Dictatorships can easily result from that. There should be a limit to the accumulation of wealth.
Hindi: यह कि वह भी अनुशासन किया जाये, य

Original English: There should always be a spirit of charity on our minds.
Translated Hindi: It is not necessary that you should make a gift to someone in order to help him. It is quite enough if you feel the spirit of charity in your mind. This is better than giving a gift.
Hindi: Aapake man men charita ki bhavana rahe. Charita ke

Original English: Even a fraction of your wealth, given by you, can become the basis of someone's livelihood.
Translated Hindi: Your blessings will be the source of inspiration for many people for years to come. May you have a happy and prosperous year!
Hindi: आपके पैसों के चटपटा अंकल लहर आ

Original English: Many people in society are living in extreme poverty. We all must think about them.
Translated Hindi: We must be thankful to almighty for all the blessings we have.
Hindi: व्यक्ति की जनसंख्या गरीबी की जड़ी महत्वप

Original English: In fact wealth, religion, desire and salvation have been given equal importance in all walks of life.
Translated Hindi: The reason for this is that all these things are necessary for the progress of the society and the individual. These things are like the four wheels of a vehicle, which are necessary for its progress.
Hindi: In fact, wealth, religion, desire and salvation have been given equal importance in all walks

Original English: Everyone wishes for wealth and success and depending on how hard they work they achieve wealth and success.
Translated Hindi: Most of the time people become successful and rich through their own efforts. But it is not impossible that someone becomes successful and rich without any effort. It can be said that God made him a successful person and rich.
Hindi: Sabhi tamanna karte hain ki woh apne par

Original English: Only wealth gained with self-respect is long lasting.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अपने-मात्र स्वयं अपने स्वार्थ से जीवन के लिए लाभ निभाना ही लम

Original English: No criminal, no matter how wealthy he becomes, can never enjoy his wealth in the correct manner and nor can he be useful to others.
Translated Hindi: When he is in power, he cannot sleep peacefully; when he is in prison, he cannot live in peace. The only way to enjoy a life that is useful to others, is to follow the path of Dharma.
Hindi: Koi vyapari ya bhi vyapari,

Original English: Do not envy someone who has money.
Translated Hindi: Instead, look for someone who is wise. Wisdom can give you a lot more than money.
Hindi: Dukh ki shikar mat hona, ilm ki shikar hona. Ilm to ek sambandhiya hai, aur dukh ek samband

Original English: True wealthy is the one which makes it possible for wealth to flow through numerous hands.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: एक वर्ष के मौसम बदलते ही न कहाँ आते हैं हर व्यक्ति की तरह बद

Original English: There is no more appropriate use for wealth than that of creating jobs for others.
Translated Hindi: The real wealth of a nation is its productive capacity.
Hindi: वस्तुओं की प्रतीति को अवशेष अपनाने में हमारी जान

Original English: Also bear in mind, wealth does not come only in the form of money.
Translated Hindi: The things you own, the knowledge you have and the love you share are all wealth. So, what are you waiting for? Let's get busy and let your life be filled with happiness! Hindi: वधुति वर्तमान में क

Original English: Health, character and love for others is also a kind of wealth.
Translated Hindi: This wealth is the greatest. This wealth should not be neglected.
Hindi: Saanskriti, dharm aur apne paramparaye ki pyaari se pyaari, bhavishyati manayiye. Aise vidya ki pahchan hai. Is vid

Original English: Try to gain possession of this kind of wealth.
Translated Hindi: Then, you will have to spend your life in a jail.
Hindi: यह लक्षण अपने जीवन को बंद कर देना है वक् फ

Original English: This morning in Agra a sub-inspector lost his life and four people were severely injured after a direct collision between a truck and a police Jeep.
Translated Hindi: The Jeep was going in the direction of Fatehpur Sikri. The police Jeep was hit on the left side. Its bangle broke. The police jeep was hit by the truck after crossing the toll booth. The police Jeep was hit by the truck after crossing the toll booth. The police jeep

Original English: Near the Tora Police Chowky in the Tajganj Station area a police Jeep going at full speed collided head-on with a truck.
Translated Hindi: This accident occurred when the police Jeep was going at high speed to catch the criminals who had looted the public and fired from the police jeep window. The police jeep driver and others were critically injured in the accident.
Hindi: तोड़ा पुलिस

Original English: Sub-Inspector Register Singh died on the spot and four constable were severely injured.
Translated Hindi: The police have registered a case under section 304 and 452 of the IPC. The deceased Sub-Inspector was 40 years old and has survived his wife and two children. The deceased Sub-Inspector was posted at police station Ghazipur and was on his way home when the accident occurred.

Original English: All of them were admitted to the medical college.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: सबके साथ सभी उम्र से नामांक दिया गया है।
English: The criminal should be given capital punishment. Hindi: सामने

Original English: According to the information received, a resident named Habibullah Malla was walking towards Willow Nursery in Haritara Sopor on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: Around 11:30 am, a group of armed men riding in three motorbikes stopped him and opened fire. He sustained injuries in several parts of the body and died while being taken to hospital. 
Hindi: विवरण दर्ज कर

Original English: Suddenly he was attacked by a bear.
Translated Hindi: He ran away and was saved.
Hindi: Ek samay par unke paas ek baar se hissa hat gaya. Unke liye bachpana hua.
6. Read the story and translate the text from English to Hindi.
Once there was a boy named Jack.

Original English: He cried for help to fight the bear off.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Vo Bhair se ladne ke liye tawajah uthaya. 4. Translate the following text from Hindi to English: Hindi: Mere paas ek padhi hai. English: I have one book. 5. Translate the following text from English to Hindi

Original English: By the time the people around him came to his help the bear had badly bitten his face.
Translated Hindi: The bear was killed by the police.
Hindi: Kuch der baad uske doston ne uski help ki magar uske muh pe jaise hi chooti gayi thi uske muh ki kum karni shuru ho gayi. Police ne us

Original English: People shouted and threw rocks at the bear.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: लोग भेड़ियों को मारवाहन करते थे।
3. Translate the following text from Hindi to English: Hindi: हिंदी भ

Original English: Then, the bear left Habibullah and hid in the nursery.
Translated Hindi: He ate a lot of chocolates and other sweets. He drank a lot of juice and milk. Then the bear went to the bathroom and drank a lot of water. He puffed and puffed and puffed until he was very big. Then he went to the living room and sat on the sofa

Original English: The villagers took the injured man to hospital.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: गाँववासियों ने घुटना घातक पुरुष को अस्पताल में ले जाने थ

Original English: To achieve their set targets the Income-Tax Department has plans to start a campaign for collecting advance tax from tax payers.
Translated Hindi: The campaign is going to start from July 1st, 2010. During this campaign the assessee will be informed about the amount of advance tax payable and also the last date for payment of advance tax. On the last date the assessee will be asked to deposit the advance tax. If

Original English: More than 100 NGOs, along with the Executive Management committee of the Mahabodhi Temple, declared a World Heritage centre, were sent notices by the Department.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: सभी आयोजन करनेवाले एकल निगो, और संस्थान के नेता की अध्यक्ष

Original English: School students are also future tax payers.
Translated Hindi: They are the nation builders. They are our responsibility. They must be educated. They must be healthy. They must be disciplined. Hence, we must make them aware about their rights and responsibilities.
Hindi: School students are also future tax payers. They are the nation builders. They are our

Original English: The official have started reaching out to them too.
Translated Hindi: They need to know that they aren’t alone and we’re all on their side. We need to make sure they know we’re there for them.
Hindi: Official ne aaj tak unko contact bhi kar chuke hai. Unhone zarurat hai ki wo jan sakte hai,

Original English: The Gaya Zone Deputy Director Saurabh Kumar Rai announced details of the departmental action plan on Tuesday to 'Jagaran'.
Translated Hindi: The action plan includes the strengthening of the department's mobile team, strengthening of the department's network, strengthening of the department's network and strengthening of the department's network. The action plan includes the strengthening of the department's mobile team, strengthening of the department's network, strengthening of the department's network

Original English: The Deputy Director said that the target for the current financial year was around Rs. 9 crores.
Translated Hindi: He emphasized the need to develop a new strategy with a view towards achieving the target. He also emphasized the need to put in place a mechanism to collect data from all the centers in the country.
Hindi: Deputy Director ne kaha ki financial year mein is saal ki target 9 crore ru

Original English: Out of which 40 percent will be obtained through TDS and TCS.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इसमें प्राथमिकता दर्ज और किसी भी तरह की गद्दी जो तिथि के अनुस

Original English: There are many sources from which to collect the remaining amount.
Translated Hindi: However, the one which has the least interest is the loan.
Hindi: Koi bhi jama karne ke liye do se zyada tareeke hote hai. Lekin jama karne ke liye kuu khatarnak hai kaa loan

Original English: He said an appeal is being made to tax payers to pay their advance taxes.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Usne kaha ki anubhav karyakartaon ko apna advance tax bataye. 4. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The government also announced that since the tax session is ending in a few days, an additional 1% sur

Original English: Departmental actions are being brought against the tax defaulters.
Translated Hindi: The number of prosecutions in the last financial year was 21, 691. The cases have been registered for the offences of avoiding the payment of tax, concealment of income, failure to keep proper accounts, causing loss to Govt. by evading tax, etc.
Hindi: व

Original English: Similarly there is a plan to self-motivate the tax payers to pay.
Translated Hindi: The tax payers can be motivated by sending SMS to the tax payers if they pay their taxes on time. Accordingly the tax payers can be convinced to pay the tax on time. The tax payers can pay the tax without any tension if they are confident of paying the tax on time.

Original English: For this reason officials have gone to the IMA, the Chamber of Commerce and other institutions in Gaya.
Translated Hindi: They have started a dialogue with them to know their concerns and asked them to suggest ways to solve this problem.
Hindi: इसलए आपने दूरदर्शन किया। इमा, श

Original English: He said that the Chief Commissioner of income tax has come to pay a visit after an invitation from the Chamber.
Translated Hindi: So we should welcome him. Hindi: Unhone kaha ki Income tax Chief Commissioner ne apne invitation ke anusaar hume paida karne aane wale hai. Is liye hume uski khushi mein unko milna chahiye.
Questions 7 to

Original English: He said that there is a strategy to spread awareness about taxes among the students from 9th to 12 grade.
Translated Hindi: As per this strategy, the students will be taught about tax planning, calculation and filing of income tax returns. He said that all the students will be taught by the experts. He said that the students will be taught about the concept of calculating the income, TDS and various other parts of the income

Original English: For this purpose he himself has met with many school students.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इस तरह के लिए वे अपनी इस प्रकार के उपलब्धियों से बच्चों की तर

Original English: Children can also encourage their parents to be good tax payers.
Translated Hindi: Children can tell their parents that they will get tax benefits if they pay their taxes on time.
Hindi: बच्चे भी अपने अवरोधकों को न कराना च

Original English: He said there are a total of 42,000 members in the income tax department.
Translated Hindi: Out of this, 20,000 are staff and 22,000 are officers.
Hindi: Unhone kaha ki income tax department mai apane vishay mai 42,000 members hai. Pariyojana ke anusar 20,000 staff hai aur 22

Original English: This includes officers down to clerical staff.
Translated Hindi: This is a professional service. All must be trained to standard and to be properly equipped and have clear instructions.
Hindi: Yeh yahin tak ke karkhane ke bade, zindibad, iska yahin kees tha. Yeh aap ke li

Original English: He said that in the last financial year the department collected 5 lakh crores in taxes.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Vo kahate hai ki last financial year me department ne 5 lakh crore ke tax collect kiye hai.
2. Translate the following sentences from Hindi to English:
Hindi: उपर्युक्त प्रशनों से पह

Original English: Deputy director Rai said that he was going to ask the commercial tax department for the records of any action taken against tax defaulters.
Translated Hindi: By asking for the records, he hoped to ascertain the landowner's tax payment history. The deputy director said, "The landowner's name is believed to be Mohan Lal. We'll find out if he has any previous tax default history."
Hindi: Deputy director Rai ne kaha ki

Original English: The program started with the National Anthem and the lighting of the lamp by all the guests.
Translated Hindi: The dignitaries from industry, education and government also graced the occasion. The function was presided over by the Chief Guest, Dr. S. S. Bhalla, who inaugurated the program with the lighting of the lamp and the singing of the National Anthem. The faculty and the students

Original English: Director, Dr.S.K.Garg, said that the institution's annual function is celebrated as the foundation day.
Translated Hindi: He said that the function was organized with the objective of seeking blessings of the lord for the students and teachers of the institution. He said that the annual function was organized to give the award to the meritorious students of the institution. He said that the institution was established 30 years ago. He

Original English: During this the alumni and students who have achieved the top position in the University are awarded the "Cash Achievement Award".
Translated Hindi: A total of 17 students were awarded the Cash Achievement Award.
Translate the following text from Urdu to English:
Urdu: آزمائشات کے طور پر گھریلو کرنے کے دوران

Original English: For various competitions such as Mehendi, debating skills, Antakshari, dancing, singing and comedy shows prizes were presented to the winners.
Translated Hindi: The winners were appreciated and felicitated by the Chairman, Managing Director and the Principal of the school.
Hindi: आवधनशिलको महँगी या ग्लासविंग,

Original English: The principal guest District Collector, Navdeep Rinwa, and special guest, the Principal of the LLRM medical college, Dr. Pradeep Bharati, appreciated the management initiatives.
Translated Hindi: Dr. Bharati was happy to announce that the college has been selected for the “Viklang Arogya Darpan” (Disadvantaged Health Card) scheme run by the Uttar Pradesh government. The college management, led by the principal, Dr. Tripathi, was honored to

Original English: The program was presided over by Chaudhari Vikram Chandra Goyal, Vice-Chancellor of Charan Singh University, who said that the institution had honoured the University.
Translated Hindi: He said that the institution had not only established a name for itself, but was also celebrating 37 years of its existence.
Hindi: यह परामर्श क्षेत्र चौधरी विक्रम च

Original English: At the end of the function all the guests were given shawls and mementoes.
Translated Hindi: The guests were thanked for gracing the occasion and attending the function. Master of ceremonies thanked the chief guest, invited guests, dignitaries on the dais for attending the function. The chief guest was given a bouquet of flowers and a memento. The function came to an end with national anthem

Original English: Before that Chairman Dr. S.P Deshwal said that the aim was to provide the nation with the best and most worthy citizens by providing high quality education for students from all walks of life, who would help in moving the country forward.
Translated Hindi: He said that the education would lay a strong foundation and students would be empowered to think and act independently. He also said that the education would help in developing their personality, and they would emerge as responsible citizens.
Hindi: Jaise ki aap sab janate hain ki hamare prad

Original English: Arnav Chakravarti and Jagvijay assisted during the function.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अर्णव चक्रवती और जगवजय शामिल होंगे दीती Ganesh Utsav.
4. Translate the following text from

Original English: Megha Singh and Priti Kaushik conducted the function.
Translated Hindi: The Chief Guest of the function Sir (Name of the Guest) was felicitated with a memento and a shawl. The Vice President of the school (Name of the Vice Principal) gave a vote of thanks to all the participants.
Hindi : मेघा सिंह

Original English: In a hearing held behind closed doors, after accepting the plea of the NIA, special Judge I.S. Mehta has placed Ahmed on remand for 14 days.
Translated Hindi: The NIA has said that the statements of the witnesses so far, have been recorded under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).
Hindi: एक तारीख बंद बाँधे घटक

Original English: According to sources, when presenting Ujair Ahmed to the court, the NIA said that Ujair Ahmed was also among those accused of the Patna Serial Bombings, along with Imtiyaaz Ansari and Haider who are members of the Indian Mujahideen.
Translated Hindi: According to the NIA, he was arrested in 2019 by the Anti-Terrorist Squad of Uttar Pradesh on charges of being involved in the 2008 serial blasts in Varanasi. Effectively, Ujair Ahmed had already been arrested on charges of being involved in the 200

Original English: Ahmed had brought many other terrorists to Ansari.
Translated Hindi: Ansari had trained them.
Hindi: Ahmed ne Ansari se bahot se terorrist lene khareeda. Ansari ne unhein baandhein.
15. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: I shall be in Delhi this evening.
Hindi

Original English: The NIA wants to find the other suspects in this case by interrogating Ahmed.
Translated Hindi: The police are expected to conduct a thorough investigation of the incident, since it occurred in the capital of India. The accused have been sent to judicial custody after their police remand was over. The police have also registered a case against the accused.
Hindi: वह एक य

Original English: The search for bomb-making material and the terrorists who made those bombs is still going on, in this case.
Translated Hindi: We are looking at all possibilities as far as the investigation is concerned. I have already spoken about the possibility of a larger conspiracy and I would like to add that we are also looking at the possibility of a larger conspiracy and it is not just the two immediate persons who have been arrested. We are also

Original English: They have to take Ahmed to Bihar, Jharkhand and many other states to do this and to facilitate this Ahmed's remand is essential.
Translated Hindi: At the same time there is a very strong reason to say that the police did not need Ahmed's presence in order to prepare the case against him. There is no legal reason why the police could not have prepared the case against him without Ahmed's presence. For all these reasons, therefore, Ahmed's

Original English: It should be noted that the NIA had arrested the man accused of the Patna Serial Bomb blast, Ujair Ahmed from Ranchi, on October 30th.
Translated Hindi: Ahmed had admitted himself into the hospital after being hospitalized for injuries sustained in an encounter with the police in Bihar. It was later revealed that he was a member of the Indian Mujahideen (IM) and that he had been involved in the Patna Serial Bomb blast and another bomb blast in Bihar

Original English: The special Task Force (STF) exposed the fraud in the 2012 PMT just a day ago.
Translated Hindi: They have arrested a doctor of a private hospital along with the 2 doctors of a private medical college. The accused have been booked under various sections of IPC and the fraud has taken the place of the earlier scam in which wrong syllabus had been given to the candidates of PMT 2012.

Original English: The STF found discrepancies in the enrolment numbers of 700 students.
Translated Hindi: The STF has written a letter to the President of the University, accusing him of having enrolled his own children. The STF said that the university had failed to check the credentials of the students. The STF report said that the university had failed to check the credentials of the students. The ST

Original English: Amongst them almost 125 students had been admitted into medical college.
Translated Hindi: All the medical colleges are state government colleges except one which is a private college. There are 29 medical colleges in all in the state.
Hindi: Jakhya 125 ladke medical college mein shamil hue. Inhain sabhi state govt. medical college mein shamil hai

Original English: Now these students admissions will be declared void.
Translated Hindi: The party will take a decision after considering all aspects.
Hindi: Ab is prathamik shiksha adhikari ko yeh judaaiyaan lene padengi. Abhi ham sabhi ko is baat ke aapata badalne ki aavash

Original English: After the STF's revelation the medical examination department has started considering cancelling these students' admissions.
Translated Hindi: If the students are found guilty, then the University will order for a re-examination. If the students are found guilty then they will be punished according to law. According to the university's admission rules, a 10 percent deduction in marks will be imposed for the question paper that was leaked.
H

Original English: According to the information provided the department is waiting for a complete list of all suspect students from the STF.
Translated Hindi: The department will then send the list of names to the university. The university will then check on the suspect students and inform the law enforcement agency and the university. All these steps will be completed within 2 days.
Hindi: According to the information provided the department is waiting for a complete list of

Original English: The list will be sent to the PEB to revoke the eligibility of the students involved.
Translated Hindi: I will give you the list of students with their marks, but only if you are willing to work for me.
Hindi: List तो एकदम आपके अपने एकदम बनाया ज

Original English: Although, in this case, the department is also thinking of taking legal advice.
Translated Hindi: The department has already asked for the records of the property and an explanation from the Department of Revenue. The department is also thinking of taking legal advice.
Hindi: यहां के विधानशास्त्रअधिक

Original English: The departmental officials said that the students enrolled in 2012 have completed one year, so taking legal advice is necessary.
Translated Hindi: The university officials have also been contacted regarding the matter. The university has received a notice from the court. We do not want to comment anything on this. The court has asked the university to file a reply to the notice on the next date.
Hindi: विश्वव

Original English: As the case is now under an STF enquiry, Department of Medical Education officials are not in a position to make a statement.
Translated Hindi: The enquiry report will be submitted to the Chief Secretary, who will take a decision on the issue.

Original English: The PEB director, Tarun Pithore, said, "If the STF provides us the list of suspected students with proof, then their admission would be cancelled immediately".
Translated Hindi: Hindi: निश्चल प्रशासन की निर्देशन अनुदेशक टरुन पिठोरे ने कहा है, ‘क

Original English: The Director of Medical Education, Dr.Nirbhay Srivastava, also said, "If the students' admissions were found to be forged, we would cancel their admissions".
Translated Hindi: However, he said the college was granted affiliation by the government after all the required formalities were completed.
Hindi: निर्भय स्रीवास्तव की दफ़्यान देश

Original English: According to STF officials the forged student admissions included in the PMT for the year 2012 are under investigation.
Translated Hindi: The Verma committee report has been submitted to the high court.
Hindi: बाहरी लिंक: ट्रॉफो लिंक थेंडिंग: बाहरी ल

Original English: After the investigation a list of the suspected students will be given to the PEB.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: पीईबी के नियोजन के बाद आरोपी छात्रों की सूची की जांच के बाद

Original English: It is noteworthy that in the PMT exams for the year 2013 the eligibility of 345 suspect students was rescinded.
Translated Hindi: According to the media, the PMT 2013 counselling has been delayed.
Hindi: यह जानकारी मान्य है कि पीएमटी के परीक्षा के स

Original English: Out of these 345, the Department of Medical Education has already rescinded 84 student admissions.
Translated Hindi: The total number of students who obtained fake certificates was 447.
Hindi: 346 प्राथमिक स्वास्थ्य शिक्षा विभाग के सामान

Original English: Ejaz Jaan, the legislator of the Poonch Assembly Constituency, set up a water cooler in the Gurudwara grounds.
Translated Hindi: The gurudwara committee was not ready to accept this gift and threatened to take legal action against the legislator. The gurudwara was built during the pre-partition days. It was renovated by the legislator. The water cooler was installed in the gurudwara

Original English: The legislator said that quite a lot of people visit the Gurudwara, but due to the lack of proper water facilities a water cooler has been installed here.
Translated Hindi: As the visitor comes to the Gurudwara at the time of the Langar, he/she may require a glass of water, but he/she may not be able to drink water due to the lack of water facilities. He/she may not drink water due to the lack of water facilities. He

Original English: Using this, people can get cold water in the summer.
Translated Hindi: They can use this in hospitals also.
Hindi: इसे उसी तरह से उच्च वर्ष की दर्दनाक पानी पा सकते हैं

Original English: Pure ordinary water will also be available during the winter season.
Translated Hindi: 100% free of charge.
Hindi: Pure jadibooti hua pani bhi raat ke waqt mil sakta hai. 100% gair mehfooz.
The following sentences are to be translated from
English to Hindi
1. The boy was

Original English: This will solve the drinking water problem of the devotees.
Translated Hindi: This will solve the drinking water problem of the devotees.
Hindi: यह देवो की पिन की समस्या को समाधान करेगा। यह देवो क

Original English: Other people were also present at the event, including the Gurudwara Committee members.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: एक जबाब देना है कि ये सभा के समक्ष अन्य लोग भी उपस्थित थ

Original English: If, after the general election, the new government continued the policy of not selling kerosene through ration shops then in half a dozen states kerosene would not be sold in these shops.
Translated Hindi: The beneficiaries would have to buy kerosene at the market rate and at full price. They would have to buy it from open market and pay three times the current price. Maithili and Bengali dialects are written in the devanagari script.
Hindi: Agar, g

Original English: The Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are among the states where the sale of kerosene sale will be stopped.
Translated Hindi: The price of kerosene is being reduced and the sale of LPG cylinders has been increased. The petrol price has increased by 16 rupees per liter. The price of petrol is being increased every day. The price of diesel is being increased every day. The price of diesel is being increased

Original English: In addition to these, Karnataka, Tamilnadu and some states in the north-east are also preparing to stop the sale of kerosene.
Translated Hindi: The government has formed a committee to replace kerosene with liquefied petroleum gas and solar lights. But the committee has not been able to take a decision as different organizations have different opinions.
Hindi: इनसे अधम, कर्नाटक

Original English: According to sources in the Petroleum Ministry the decision to stop the sale of kerosene through PDS shops is based on two criteria.
Translated Hindi: The first is the fact that kerosene is being sold at a rate of Rs. 12 per litre from shops, while the actual subsidy is Rs. 32 per litre. The second is that the sale of kerosene through PDS shops results in a loss of Rs. 3

Original English: The first criterion is that an electricity supply are being installed in the rural areas at a rapid pace.
Translated Hindi: The second criterion is that the electrification should be an affordable and economic means of empowering the rural people. The third criterion is that the rural people should get electricity at reasonable rates. The fourth criterion is that electricity should be provided to the rural people in all the seasons. The fifth criterion is that the

Original English: The second criterion is the LPG supply network.
Translated Hindi: A household that uses LPG must have a gas pipeline connection to their home. This is essential as a cylinder is filled with gas by a distributor and is then transferred to the home through a pipeline. The pipeline system has to be maintained by the household. This means that the household has to buy additional

Original English: This means that in those states where most households in the rural areas have gas connections the sale of PDS kerosene will be stopped.
Translated Hindi: The poor will benefit and the black market will be removed.
Hindi: Iske karan ab kisi bhi rajya me poori tarah se PDS ke kerosene ki saman dukan band kar di jayegi. Yeh poori tarah se surak

Original English: The Petroleum Ministry is fully prepared for this.
Translated Hindi: The government is fully prepared for every situation. The Petroleum Ministry was duly informed about the situation. Petroleum Ministry has requested the IOC to supply as much as possible. The Petroleum Ministry has also requested the Oil Marketing Companies to supply the fuel to the people. The Petroleum Ministry has also informed the Oil Marketing Companies

Original English: Since October 2013 the sale of PDS kerosene in Delhi has already been stopped.
Translated Hindi: This has been done to reduce subsidy. Sale through the PDS is now restricted to poor people. All other people have to purchase kerosene from open market. The government has already clarified the guidelines regarding the implementation of the new policy. This policy is being implemented to protect the interest of the poor

Original English: According to sources, under this policy the kerosene quota of Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand has been reduced significantly.
Translated Hindi: The government has also decided to increase the kerosene quota in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
Hindi: स्रकार, ऐसी यात्रा को यबलने की तरफ इंकब

Original English: The Punjab quota of 2.72 lakh kilolitres was reduced to one lakh kilolitres.
Translated Hindi: The quota of 2.72 lakh kilolitres will be reduced to one lakh kilolitres.
Hindi: छत्रपति शिवाजी महाराज अभियान ने पं

Original English: The kerosene quota allocation for Haryana was reduced by 70% and for Uttarakhand it was reduced by almost 40%.
Translated Hindi: The states were expecting more quota from the government but the petroleum ministry has allocated less quota to the states.
Hindi: हर य और उत त र कश द कर स न म क स न कड न कर

Original English: Despite this reduction no shortage of kerosene has been reported by these states.
Translated Hindi: In fact, the states have sufficient kerosene stocks for five weeks for meeting their requirements.
Hindi: यह प्रतीक्षा निर्भरता के न रह पाई हैं। इ

Original English: The Ministry is assuming that it is clear that kerosene is used for adulteration.
Translated Hindi: My question is that how much is adulterated with kerosene and how much with diesel? Ministry: The number of samples in which kerosene adulteration has come is 0.02%. In which kerosene adulteration has come, its quantity is 0.1

Original English: The difference in the price of diesel and PDS kerosene is currently Rs.37.
Translated Hindi: 50. The difference is to be reduced to Rs. 15 by 8th October, 2006. If this happens, PDS kerosene will become Rs. 8.50 per litre cheaper than diesel. This high difference in price has resulted in diversion of PDS keros

Original English: This encourages those who carrying out adulteration.
Translated Hindi: There are stringent provisions under 272 of IPC which provide for punishment upto 10 years imprisonment as well as fine upto 2 lacs.
Hindi: Isse zyada bahut insaniyat se fayda uthana mushkil hota hai. 272 IPC ki madad

Original English: In the states where the sale of kerosene through PDS shops has been stopped, the oil companies can sell kerosene at full price on the open market.
Translated Hindi: The states must pay the differential between the subsidized price and the open market price for this quantity of kerosene sold at full price. The amount paid by the state government for the kerosene sold at full price will be reimbursed by the Central Government.
Hindi: Kerosene ki k

Original English: At present the oil companies are selling kerosene at a loss of Rs.39 per litre.
Translated Hindi: The Government has made arrangements to give subsidy of Rs.30 per litre to the oil companies which are being passed on to the poor consumers through BPL cards. The Government has, therefore, decided to stop the sale of kerosene at the loss.
Hindi: आत पर

Original English: The burden of the kerosene subsidy in the year 2013-14 is estimated to be 31,000 crore rupees.
Translated Hindi: It remains a large subsidy today and I am sure that there is enough space to reduce its burden. However, I would like to take it forward. I would like to reduce it gradually and aim at a time when the subsidy can be phased out. I do not want to do a quick fix on

Original English: Claiming to be a trading firm the accused opened accounts for investors and in the name of selling and purchasing shares, committed fraud.
Translated Hindi: The accused collected money from the investors and transferred the same to his personal account. The total amount collected from the investors is Rs.1,43,80,000/-. The accused has fled from the country and is absconding.
Hindi: इस व्यक

Original English: It is possibly the first time in the state that this type of fraud, worth crores of rupees, has been discovered and exposed.
Translated Hindi: But the fact that the fraud could be detected and exposed hardly represents a triumph for the state. It is a pity that such frauds need to be detected and exposed at all. These frauds are not the results of the failures of the state but are the manifestations of the complete failure of bureaucracy to

Original English: The police have not yet been able to catch the leader of the gang, but the police have detained seven people including the accused, after examining his work in the state.
Translated Hindi: The police have arrested six people, including the accused and the driver of the car in which the accused was traveling.
Hindi: गैंग के नेता को पुलिस नजरअंदाज

Original English: This gang ran a fictitious commodity market named Metatrader-5.
Translated Hindi: The company is accused of defrauding investors of Rs 4,000 crore.
Hindi: Yeh gang ek fictitious commodity market k naam par Metatrader-5 ke naam per fraud karte the. Yeh investors ko Rs. 4000 crore ki fraud karte the.

Original English: Company executives used to take cash from investors and with the help of bogus software used to create fake IDs.
Translated Hindi: After that, the executives used to create fake employees through friends and used to claim insurance from the company. In this way, a lot of money was cashed out.
Hindi: उपभोक्ताओं को कैश लेक

Original English: With these, the accused could see the shares the investors were buying.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह एक वह लिखने वाले को अनुकूल होता है कि इनके साथ वह किस शेयर

Original English: They also used to known which shares were being purchased and at what price.
Translated Hindi: this is called a ‘shareholder register’ and it was kept under lock and key.
Hindi:
English: They also used to known which shares were being purchased and at what price. this is called a ‘shareholder register’ and it was kept under lock and key. Hindi:
English:

Original English: In reality no shares were purchased, nor any transactions carried out, because no DEMAT account was opened for the investors and share prices were falsely displayed in the fictitious software.
Translated Hindi: In the name of the investors, the company issued fictitious bills of purchase and sale to itself and the investors. The company also issued fictitious bills of share transfer to itself and the investors. The company allegedly received Rs 26.5 lakh from the investors. The company has allegedly forged the signatures

Original English: Police estimate that hundreds of people had been defrauded by the gang.
Translated Hindi: According to police sources, among the victims were also women and even children.
Hindi: बाहर के पुलिस ने काम किया है कि खुद पर पहुंचे

Original English: Every investor was asked to invest from two to five lakhs to get good returns.
Translated Hindi: Please invest soon before the shares run out.
Hindi: सभी निवेशक को पाँच लाख तक निवेश करने के लिए बड़ी

Original English: The main suspect, Amit Soni, was detained by the cyber cell from Jodhpur, while his six associates were arrested in Indore.
Translated Hindi: The accused were booked under sections 66D and 66E of the IT Act, 2000, for criminal conspiracy and cheating. They were also charged under section 420 of the IPC. Section 66D deals with the punishment for cheating by impersonation. Section 66E deals with

Original English: According to the cyber cell ADG, Ashok Dohare, every stock trading company has to join the Stock Exchange as a trading firm.
Translated Hindi: If any company is found to be a stock broker without joining the Stock Exchange, then it will be registered as a broker in the Stock Exchange and will be fined with a fine of 2 lakhs.
Hindi: डायरी सुरक्षा आ

Original English: Only after that can the company can get investors to do stock trading through them.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह बात निश्चित है की उसके बाद कंपनी को अन्य ज्ञात करने वाले अ

Original English: Then the investor's DEMAT account is opened, so that the stock can be traded, but this company MetaTrader-5 was neither associated with any exchange, nor was carrying out any stock trading.
Translated Hindi: MetaTrader-5 said that it was only the software that was being used for trading. However, HDFC Securities and 5paisa capital have denied this.
Hindi: तो आईनेसटर के अंतर्गत स

Original English: This company purchased a server on 24th September 2012 under the name of Wintrade.
Translated Hindi: The server costed them Rs. 50,000.
Hindi: Ye koi company 50,000 rupaye ka kisi server ko 24th September 2012 ko Wintrade ke naam par kharida.
- English: The company purchased a server on 24th

Original English: Since then this company has been defrauding people with fake investments.
Translated Hindi: We are not aware of any other means for raising money.
Hindi: वह इस शैक्षणिक वर्ष से ही लोगों को फराक करने

Original English: So far, eight traders from Indore have come forward with complaints to the cyber cell.
Translated Hindi: They claim that they have been cheated of around Rs 15 crore in the last 15 years. The Cyber Cell is investigating the case.

Hindi: Bina ek trader ke baare mein Indore mein 8 traders ko cyber cell ke paas complaint aaya hai. Unhone yeh

Original English: After selling their shares at a profit the amount was not transferred into their accounts.
Translated Hindi: But when they complained to the bank authorities the money was transferred to their accounts.

Original Text:

English: उनकी शेयरें निवेश से लाभी की विज्ञापन में

Original English: Then they started asking for the promised profit from the executives of the company.
Translated Hindi: The farmers were not ready to pay, but the executives of the company started threatening them. But after several meetings, the farmers agreed to pay 2% commission. The executives of the company started to visit the farmers and got sweets for the farmers. The farmers also continued to give commissions to the company

Original English: Investors are even saying that their fake IDs always showed a reduction in the price of their purchased shares.
Translated Hindi: They don’t understand that the company has not lost money. What has happened is that the company has just been sold to someone else. This means that the company’s assets have been sold and the new owner is the buyer. The only thing that has changed is the name on the title of the company

Original English: This price was set by the accused themselves.
Translated Hindi: He is making a statement about his own character. If he is lying, the whole statement is false. If he is telling the truth, then he is guilty. Hindi: Iska yah nyaya sirf usne hi kiya hai. Iske apne vyaktitw par hi

Original English: The company had appointed a CEO and agents in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.
Translated Hindi: The company could conduct marketing activities well.
Hindi: भारतीय रस्ते में एक उद्यम के नेता और एजेंट्स के

Original English: The agents lured people to join the company with promises of very good returns.
Translated Hindi: They gave people the impression that the scheme was very safe and that they were earning very good returns on their investments. They made people believe that the scheme was very profitable and were earning very good returns on their investments. The agents assured members that the scheme was very good and that they were earning very good

Original English: Thereafter, some people invested between two to five lakh rupees.
Translated Hindi: They said they would give us our money back after five years. We paid them the money. But they didn't return any money. We don't have our money. We don't know where it is.
Hindi: Abhi tak kisi ne 2 se 5 lakh rupaye

Original English: The players in this team are setting new test match records everyday and now their reputation in one day tournaments is also increasing.
Translated Hindi: The Indian team is now considered to be a very strong team. It is not a small task to win over the Indian team. Our team is going to play with this strong team and is getting ready to defeat them. Indian team is constantly on the move for victory. They are trying their best to

Original English: An excellent example of this was when a strong New Zealand team was crushed by Bangladesh, who had an insurmountable lead and won the one-day series title.
Translated Hindi: The match was watched by 28,000 people at the stadium, but the online broadcast was watched by 1.2 million people around the world. The Internet is the most important factor in the spread of sports news, especially the news of the sporting events. With the help of 6G

Original English: With Sohag Gazi and Musherfe Murtaza's strong bowling Bangladesh defeated New Zealand in the second one-day match by 40 runs and gained a insurmountable 2-0 lead in the three-match series.
Translated Hindi: The Kiwi batsmen failed to chase the target of 250 runs and fell short by 40 runs getting all out for 209 in 46.5 overs. Bangladesh got 249/8 in 50 overs and had a lead of 40 runs after winning the toss and electing to

Original English: This is Bangladesh's sixth consecutive win in one-day matches against New Zealand.
Translated Hindi: They have won all their five previous encounters against the Kiwis, including the last one at Hamilton in 2008. The hosts are currently sitting pretty at the top of the ICC ODI rankings table, followed by South Africa and India. The Kiwis, who are in the fifth position, have

Original English: Before this, New Zealand had lost the 2010 series to Bangladesh by 0-4.
Translated Hindi: England had won the first two games against Bangladesh and lost the next two to tie the series 2-2. From 2012, Bangladesh had not lost a Test series to any team, and had won 4 and drawn 5 of the 9 Test series. This series was their first

Original English: Chasing a target of 248 runs set by Bangladesh, the New Zealand team lost wickets at regular intervals. The team had piled on 207 runs in 46.4 overs from the spin bowling of Ghazi (34/3) and the strong bowling of Murtaza (43/3).
Translated Hindi: The New Zealand team's middle order batsmen were unable to withstand the pressure of Bangladesh's strong bowling and fell victim to the bowlers.
Hindi: Bangladesh ke saath 248 runs ke target par, New Zealand team ke saare wickets regular interval par girte gaye. Ghazi

Original English: New Zealand's Ross Taylor made the highest score of 45, while Corey Anderson scored 37 runs.
Translated Hindi: Indian team captain Dhoni scored only 2 runs in 10 balls and returned to the pavilion. While Indian bowlers performed brilliantly and all the batsmen of New Zealand were caught at a score of 149 runs. Ishant Sharma took 3 wickets for 36 runs.
Hindi

Original English: Kyle Mills made 27 not-out, while Nathan McCullum contributed 25 runs, but many of the team's batsmen could not convert the good start into a big innings score, so the team were defeated.
Translated Hindi: The team needs a victory in the next game to stay in the knockout stage.
Hindi: नेत्र केइल मिल्स की टेन ज़ुट ख़िल ख़िल ज़ु

Original English: Earlier, the Bangladesh team was all out for 247 runs after 49 overs in spite of Tamim Iqbal's (58) half century.
Translated Hindi: But, the hosts were able to score 250 runs for the loss of 7 wickets in 48.2 overs to win the match.
Hindi: Earlier, बांग्लादेश टीम ने अपने

Original English: Anderson and James Nisham took eight wickets between them.
Translated Hindi: Anderson took six for 67 and Nisham, who had two for 33, finished with figures of four for 34. The Proteas had been forced to follow on after being dismissed for 223 in their first innings. They were all out for 161 in their second innings, with

Original English: Anderson took 4 wickets for 40 runs, while Nisham claimed 4 wickets for 53 runs.
Translated Hindi: The left-arm spinner, who is one of the most economical bowlers in the tournament, dismissed Moeen Ali and Chris Jordan in the final over.
Hindi: अन्दरसन 4 विकेट जैसे गय

Original English: Tamim became Bangladesh's highest run scorer in one day cricket.
Translated Hindi: His 103 in the third ODI against New Zealand helped him overtake the record of 2,305 runs held by Mohammad Ashraful. Tamim, 22, is one of the six players in the current squad who made their ODI debut in 2007. He made his

Original English: Leaving Shakib -ul-Hasan behind, Tamim scored 3,702 runs in 124 matches.
Translated Hindi: He is the only Bangladeshi test player to score a century in his first test innings.
Hindi: रज, तमिम अपने पहली टेस्ट इंग्लैंड

Original English: The third and final match of the series will be played on Sunday at Fatullah.
Translated Hindi: The first match will be played on Saturday.
Hindi: बारे में तीसरा और आखिरी पार्टी सीरीज रखा जा रहा

Original English: The bike was found abandoned near the forests of Pipcho.
Translated Hindi: Several police officials are investigating the matter. The bike was stolen from the Xyz company.
Hindi: यह बाइक नदी के पर्यावरण में दराज कर जाने

Original English: The police have taken the bike into custody.
Translated Hindi: The thief is behind bars.
Hindi: Akalmandi isse dekhata hai. Nark me beh raha hai.
31. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: He was the first student to get the first prize.
Hindi: Wo pehla m

Original English: The bike belonged to JRPO postman Chhoti Mehta.
Translated Hindi: The bike was stolen on 15th June 2012 when the letter carrier went to deliver a registered letter at the house of Modi. The letter carrier was attacked by Modi and his aides. The letter carrier fled and the postman found his bike stolen. The police says that the bike was stolen

Original English: The Gate City Hall Circle Office, that earns crores of rupees every day for the Punjab State Power Corporation, is housed in an old ruin of a building.
Translated Hindi: It is a building that the state government should be ashamed of. To the left of the entrance is a main hall that is a dismal sight. Two huge unused water tanks stand outside, with the tanks’ pipes and electric wires lying in a heap. There is not a single person to be seen.

Original English: All the employees are forced to work in fear of accidents.
Translated Hindi: They are forced to work in a high-risk environment. The management is not ready to take the responsibility of their safety.
Hindi: सभी कर्मचारीं ने अपराध की डर से प्र

Original English: Plaster falling from the ceiling everyday has caused panic among the staff.
Translated Hindi: The authorities have assured that the problem will be solved in a few days.
Hindi: बर्फ पर बर्फ के सरकार ने रहते संबंधित के सीध

Original English: Built in 1913, this British-era building was the Municipal Corporation's first office.
Translated Hindi: It was built in Art Deco style and its interior walls feature murals depicting the city's history.
Hindi: एक अंग्रेजी दिनांक 1913 में निर्मित थी

Original English: In 1995 the building was handed over to the Power Board.
Translated Hindi: The Power Board, however, was not able to maintain the building. In addition, the building had become the center of illegal activities.
Hindi: 1995 में इस बम्बई की बम्बई देश

Original English: The department just did some painting by way of repairs.
Translated Hindi: For this he borrowed 1000 dollars from his father. With this he bought a new chain saw for 600 dollars. He had to pay 40% interest on the loan. With this he bought a new trailer at the cost of 1000 dollars. He also bought a new set of

Original English: The building has deteriorated to the extent that employees are afraid of working in it.
Translated Hindi: It is being repaired.
Hindi: इस बैंक वास्तविक एंव अभिनीत क्षेत्र में किसी भी प्रक

Original English: The building's condition is so poor that often plaster falls from the ceiling.
Translated Hindi: The roof leaks in many places.
Hindi: इस मशीन की स्थिति ऐसी है कि बजने जबरदस्त आती हैं.

Original English: In the past month, plaster has fallen from the ceiling in four rooms.
Translated Hindi: Some of the plaster has fallen on my bed.
Hindi: पिछले महीने में 4 से अधिक लुभाया खोलने के साथ बेडर

Original English: Because of this a female employee was injured.
Translated Hindi: She was pregnant. She was also the bread winner for her family. She was not able to afford her medical expenses. She was in need of financial help.
Hindi: Isliye is kaam se ladki ka injur hua tha. Waha par uski chhoti bet

Original English: The JE and Revenue accountant narrowly escaped injury in this accident.
Translated Hindi: He was standing at the edge of the platform when the accident occurred. He was not aware that the train was coming towards him and he was just about to step out on to the track when the train arrived. He was lucky to escape with just a bump on his head.
Bengali:

Original English: Currently nearly four hundred employees work in the building.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यहाँ रहने वाले कार्मिकों की संख्या डॉस आबंटी करने वाली है

Original English: These include the SE along with 5 Ex.Ens., 12 SDOs, 20 Junior Engineers, 130 Clerical staff, 200 Technical Workers and 20 other staff members.
Translated Hindi: The services of 10 Ex.Ens. and 3 JEs have been taken on contract basis.
Hindi: यहाँ हैं तथा 5 अधीनस्थ संचालक, 12 स

Original English: Even though the situation is so bad, the PowerCom top officials have taken no steps to secure their safety so far.
Translated Hindi: They have been going about their daily work in the building as if nothing has happened. They have no plans to evacuate the building.
Hindi: Baad mein bhi yah aitihasik karyaein, PowerCom ke top adhikaaron ne aisee stithi

Original English: Three rooms allotted to the JEs, for scooter and cycle parking, and two rooms on the upper floor of the building have complete collapsed.
Translated Hindi: The fire extinguisher installed on the ground floor has been damaged. The alarm bell installed on the ground floor has been damaged. The water tank on the ground floor is empty. The water pump on the ground floor is not working. There is no water in the overhead tank on the ground floor. The

Original English: The state of the building can easily be assessed by these facts.
Translated Hindi: It is the only building in the city which is not only well maintained but also well kept in both its interior as well as exterior. The building is surrounded by a huge open space which gives it a grand and spacious look. The building has 12 floors with 2 floors being underground and the rest

Original English: At the state women's sport championships Rohtak took first place in Kabbadi.
Translated Hindi: In Kho-Kho girls team has been given 1st place.
Hindi: राज्य की महिला खेल की राजमा रोहतक में कबड्डी

Original English: Jajjhar and Hissar came second and third respectively in Kabaddi.
Translated Hindi: The team from Hissar came first in Kho-Kho. The team from Jajjhar won the Volleyball match.
Hindi: Jajjhar aur Hissar khelon mein doosre aur teesre the. Hissar ke khelon mein khiladi

Original English: Similarly, in basketball Sonipat was first, Rohtak second, and Kurukshetra took third place.
Translated Hindi: The winners received cash prizes and cups.
Hindi: भारतीय क्रिकेट के अनुसार, सुनीपत से पहले, रोहतक से दुस

Original English: In the volley ball competition Jajjhar came first, Mahendragarh was second and Karnal were in third place.
Translated Hindi: The prize distribution ceremony will take place in the school auditorium on 4th of October.
Hindi: रन वोलीबॉल क में जजझर चमत्कार पहला थ

Original English: In the team event gymnastic competition Ambala Team came first, the Rohtak team second and the Bhiwani team came in third place.
Translated Hindi: The team from Faridabad came in fourth place.
Hindi:
Ambala Team ne sabse pehle jeet liya, Rohtak Team ne second place and Bhiwani team third place pe aaya. Faridabad Team ne fourth place pe aaya.

Original English: In weightlifting the Sonipat team came first, the Bhiwani team came second and the Rohtak team came in third place.
Translated Hindi: In athletics the Gurgaon team came first, the Sonipat team came second and the Yamuna Nagar team came in third place. In wrestling the Bhiwani team came first, the Rohtak team came second and the Yamuna Nagar team came in third place. In boxing the

Original English: Similarly, the Bhiwani team was first, the Rohtak team second and the Hissar team third in athletics.
Translated Hindi: The Bhiwani team won the most medals in other games.
Hindi: इसी तरह के, भीवानी की टीम पहली स्थान पर थी, रो

Original English: On the other hand, at the closing ceremony while addressing the players and others present, the ADC R.C. Bidhan said that the players should continue to practice hard with discipline so that they could become great players and bring glory to the country and state.
Translated Hindi: He also said that they should remain committed to bring more laurels to the state in the future.
Hindi: Kuchh aisi baat bhi hai, jay herekalaite rangeekumari kahawat ke tahat, At the closing ceremony while addressing the players

Original English: Empowering women at the state level of women's sports has proven to be especially effective.
Translated Hindi: The state of Massachusetts has been a leader in promoting sports for girls. The National Girls and Women in Sports Day is celebrated in the state of Massachusetts on January 16. The day honors women who have overcome gender barriers and helped change the culture of sports for women.
Hindi: विप

Original English: The state level women's sporting competition began on October 29th in Rohtak, at the Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex and ended on October 31st.
Translated Hindi: The competition was organized by the Haryana State Women's Sports Association.
Hindi: रोहतक राजीव गाँधी क्रीडा सप्लाई कोंप्लेक्स,

Original English: The ADC said that the players will have to demonstrate their skills and exercise discipline to strengthen their abilities with hard work. Only then could they prove their mettle in the future and bring glory to the country and their states.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: अध्यक्ष कहा है कि खिलाड़ियों को अपने कार्य को अनुशासित बन

Original English: Arriving in Pune to inaugurate a section of the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, the BJP prime ministerial candidate, Narendra Modi, while addressing an election rally on Friday, strongly attacked Congress.
Translated Hindi: He said that the Congress-led UPA government has been a failure at the Centre and it was a 10- year misrule. He said that the Congress was not getting a chance to rule the country again and it was the only reason why it was adopting such brutal means to prevent him from becoming

Original English: On this occasion Modi said, "In several states and in the Centre, coalition governments were formed at one time, Congress, Communists and BJP also formed a coalition government.
Translated Hindi: But now after 2019, the days of coalition politics are over, the time has come for the BJP and its allies to win a majority and form the government."
Hindi: यहाँ मोदी ने कहा, “इस अ

Original English: You have seen the rule of many parties.
Translated Hindi: The rule of BJP was very bad. It was very bad. The rule of Congress was also very bad. It was also very bad. The rule of RJD was also very bad. It was also very bad. The rule of LJP was also very bad. It was also very bad.

Original English: I call upon the Political pundits and economists.
Translated Hindi: Please help me.
Hindi: मुझे राजनैतिक बातचीतियों और अर्थव्यवस्था व्यवस

Original English: Set a few parameters in the country.
Translated Hindi: The country should be an independent country, with its own flag, currency, license plates, language and laws. The best way to do it is to use a situation that is "almost real": a country with a couple of neighboring countries, and which is not too small. To make the simulation more

Original English: Which party did what.
Translated Hindi: Who did what. This is the work of a party? Who is the party. This is not the work of a party. Who is this party. Is this the work of a party?
1234567890
Hindi: Kaun kya kar raha hai. Kaun kya

Original English: If the comparative results would come out, the question of whether the BJP government should rule or not would not arise in the country.
Translated Hindi: But, the results will come out and the country will be thankful to the BJP for its honesty and the way it has conducted the elections.
Hindi: यदि समानता रिजल्ट आएंगे तो

Original English: Whenever and wherever the BJP government was formed they tried to meet the people's aspirations.
Translated Hindi: Its ideology is to serve the people. It is the only party that has been able to bring about change in the lives of the people. The BJP government has been working in the same direction, but because of the poor efforts of the government, the people of Chhattisgarh are suffering.

Original English: This country is witness to the fact that during the governments led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Morarji Desai inflation was low.
Translated Hindi: It was because of the economic reforms carried out by them.
Hindi: इस देश के लिए यह देश देखा जाएगा कि अटल बिहार

Original English: The poor man ate twice a day.
Translated Hindi: He was not able to go to school.
Hindi (transliterated): Brahmachari ko dher saari pareshaniyan hain. Unhone school jaane ki koshish bhi nahin ki.
B. Write a paragraph in Hindi on the following subject.
English

Original English: But when the government was formed by Congress or its supporters then the poor man could not get enough food.
Translated Hindi: There was no electricity, no water and no education. Even the women could not go to the toilet. Everyday the poor man is facing many problems. He is not having enough food, clothes, education and marriage. He is not having enough money for all these things. So the poor man is not

Original English: Not one Congress leader, not one leader of the UPA, can tell us what they have done in nine and a half years.
Translated Hindi: Not a single leader of the Congress has ever been seen in Parliament.
Hindi: एक कांग्रेस के कोई नेता, एक उपचुनाव के कोई न

Original English: Our country's media also cannot talk to them.
Translated Hindi: I have not seen the media talk to the victims in Kashmir. No one has even asked them about the trauma they are going through. Only the army personnel will talk to them. The media has not talked to them, nor has anyone asked them about the trauma they are going through. They have not

Original English: Congress has become egoistical.
Translated Hindi: They have become greedy. They have become lustful. They have become cruel. They have become violent. They have become selfish. They have become uncaring. They have become unkind. They have become uncompassionate. They have become unpatient. They have become unloving. They have

Original English: They do not answer to the media.
Translated Hindi: They hold the media responsible for
their defeat and despair. They do not accept the fact that media can only
help them if they are doing the right thing. The right thing for them is
not to do away with the media. The right thing is to correct the wrongs
committed by

Original English: In the Loksabha elections you answer to the public.
Translated Hindi: In the Rajyasabha elections, you answer to me.
Hindi: Lok sabha mai apni jansabha ko jawab dena hai. Rajyasabha mai mera samman karna hai.
English: He is a lawyer by profession.
Hindi: Woh

Original English: Attacking the Congress leader, Kapil Sibal, Modi said, "Every day Modi is being asked questions. In 2014, if the public elect the BJP, then it will publish a record of its work for the public every year.
Translated Hindi: Modi said that he was not the Prime Minister who would speak for five years and disappear for the rest of the five years. He said that he is a PM who will work for the people of the country. BJP is not a political party. BJP is a movement that is working for the development of

Original English: In a democracy a servant, not a ruler, should be sitting in Delhi.
Translated Hindi: If anyone is trying to impose his will on the country, then he will have to face the opposition and the people. The way a government which got 73% of the votes is running the country, it is sending shivers down our spines. We have to fight this BJP government with all

Original English: There can be no lord in Delhi, but there should be a servant there.
Translated Hindi: And the servant should be a Hindu. There should be a servant in Delhi who must be a Hindu, and nobody else.
Hindi:
दिल्ली में लोरड से नहीं , लेकिन व

Original English: The friends of Congress released balloons every day.
Translated Hindi: The balloons floated up. The balloons floated up in the sky and disappeared in the sky.
Hindi: Congress ke kathor samajh ke dost bhigre chand de rahe the. Bhigre chandya uchhal rahe the. Bhigre chandya

Original English: The friends of Congress, we gave you a test just 10 months ago.
Translated Hindi: Sure enough, you failed it. We got 44.5% of the seats, but only 6.5% of the votes. That was your first test.
Hindi: Congress ke saath dost, Ek saal pehle tumhe yeh test diya tha ki a

Original English: It is the public that will make you sit your examination in Democracy.
Translated Hindi: It is the public that will make you stand (up) for the national anthem, it is the public that will decide whether you will be the chief minister or the prime minister.
Hindi: Janta sarkar ki exam dene ka aadmi hai, janta sarkar ki

Original English: Google, Samsung, Huawei sued over Nortel patents
Translated Hindi: Hindi: गूगल, सैमसंग, हुवाई नॉर्टल पेंटेंट के लिए निश्चित क

Original English: The group that owns thousands of former Nortel patents filed a barrage of patent lawsuits on Thursday against cell phone manufacturers including Google, the company it outbid in the Nortel bankruptcy auction.
Translated Hindi: The group, called Rockstar Consortium, said it filed 11 lawsuits against 12 companies in the United States and Canada, accusing them of infringing on 22 patents related to technology for mobile devices. Rockstar is owned by a group of companies that includes Microsoft and Apple. The group purchased the

Original English: Rockstar, the consortium that bought the Nortel patents for $4.5 billion, sued Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, HTC Corp, Huawei and four other companies for patent infringement in U.S. District Court in Texas.
Translated Hindi: The lawsuit claims that the defendants infringed 11 of its patents related to cellular technology. Rockstar, controlled by private equity firms that include Apple, and other technology companies, bought the wireless patents from Nortel Networks Corp. in April 2011.
Hindi:
Rockstar, Nort

Original English: Rockstar is jointly owned by Apple, Microsoft, Blackberry, Ericsson and Sony.
Translated Hindi: It is a new type of mobile phone which can only be operated by an arm movement.
Hindi: Rockstar ityaadi ka satta Ap, Microsoft, Blackberry, Ericsson aur Sony ka hai. Ii ek naya type ka mobile phone hai jiske liye humare ha

Original English: Google is accused of infringing seven patents.
Translated Hindi: Google has admitted to infringing three of them and challenged the remaining four. A jury awarded Apple $1.05 billion in damages. The damages awarded to Google were US$0.45 billion.
Hindi: गूगल को अफरें

Original English: The patents cover technology that helps match Internet search terms with relevant advertising, the lawsuit said, which is the core of Google's search business.
Translated Hindi: The company has aggressively acquired patents in recent years to help combat potential litigation, and has successfully used patents to stave off lawsuits.
Hindi: ये पेटेंट्स इंटरनेट सर्च टर्म

Original English: Representatives for Samsung, Huawei, HTC and Rockstar could not immediately be reached.
Translated Hindi: But in a statement, Apple said that the ruling was "a win for Apple on all three patents at issue in the case." Apple said the "jury rejected every claim of invalidity and infringement asserted against all of the patents in the case." The jury found that the patents were valid.
Q.

Original English: Samsung, Huawei and HTC all manufacture phones that operate on Google's Android operating system, which competes fiercely with Apple and Microsoft mobile products.
Translated Hindi: The global smartphone market has expanded to over one billion units in 2012, with Android capturing more than half of the market. Although Apple's iPhone remains the most popular smartphone, Android has increased its share of the market in the past year and is expected to dominate the market by 2015.

Original English: In 2011 Google placed an initial $900 million bid for Nortel's patents.
Translated Hindi: The auction for Nortel's patents was conducted in Toronto, Canada under the control of the Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. In May 2011, a consortium of eight companies led by Apple was outbid by Google and acquired 6,000 patents for $4.5 billion

Original English: Google increased its bid several times, ultimately offering as much as $4.4 billion.
Translated Hindi: When the dust settled, AOL was worth $1.1 billion, a 60 percent premium over its prebid share price.
Hindi: Gugul ne kabhi bhi bid ko bahut badha diya, jabki bid ka final amount $4.4 billion ho sakta

Original English: After losing out to Rockstar on the Nortel patents, Google went on to acquire Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion, a deal driven partly by Motorola's library of patents.
Translated Hindi: Motorola Mobility has more than 17,000 patents, and is one of the largest patent holders in the mobile device sector. Now Google is beginning to make use of this arsenal.
Hindi: Google ko Rockstar se Nortel patents ke baad jeetne ke baad $12.

Original English: "Despite losing in its attempt to acquire the patents-in-suit at auction, Google has infringed and continues to infringe," the lawsuit said.
Translated Hindi: "Google has refused to take a license to the patents-in-suit and has refused to sign any agreement that would prevent its copying or use of the patented inventions. Google has also refused to return or destroy the patented inventions."
The following words do not need to be translated: Google, patent, suit

Original English: Rockstar is seeking increased damages against Google, as it claims Google's patent infringement is willful, according to the complaint.
Translated Hindi: Rockstar is seeking an injunction against Google, as well as treble damages and attorney fees.

Hindi: Rockstar गूगल के द्वारा विश्वास के भरोसे वाल

Original English: Egypt swears in first freely elected president
Translated Hindi: Hindi: एजेप्ट ने पहली विज्ञापनीय चुनें अधिकारी के आयोजन में प

Original English: Mohamed Morsi takes the oath of office but his day of triumph is unlikely to mark end of political strife in Egypt.
Translated Hindi: The Muslim Brotherhood leader was sworn in as the president of Egypt in a ceremony in Constitution Court.
Hindi: मोहम्मद मोसी इस कार्यकाले अपने प्रधान मंत

Original English: ISLAMIST Mohamed Morsi promised a "new Egypt" as he took the oath of office to become the country's first freely elected president, succeeding Hosni Mubarak who was ousted 16 months ago.
Translated Hindi: Morsi, a leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, was elected in June after a largely peaceful uprising toppled Mubarak. In a speech before the judges, he said the revolution was a "dawn of hope." "God has opened a door for us and we will not allow anyone to close

Original English: At his inauguration before the Supreme Constitutional Court, Morsi also became the Arab world's first freely elected Islamist president and Egypt's fifth head of state since the overthrow of the monarchy some 60 years ago.
Translated Hindi: He is also the first civilian to lead Egypt since Nasser, who died in 1970.
Hindi: Morsi ke vijaydaan ke saath-saath Morsi ka Supreme Constitutional Court se inauguration ke baad Arabo ka sabse purana nirvachan b

Original English: He took the oath before the court's 18 black-robed judges in its Nile-side seat built to resemble an ancient Egyptian temple.
Translated Hindi: The newly elected 75-year-old Ethiopian head of state pledged to fulfil the constitution and “refrain from any act that would undermine it or the democratic system”.
Hindi: उन्होंने कर्मचारी कोर्ट

Original English: "We aspire to a better tomorrow, a new Egypt and a second republic," Morsi said during a solemn ceremony shown live on state television.
Translated Hindi: 

Original English: "Today, the Egyptian people laid the foundation of a new life - absolute freedom, a genuine democracy and stability," said Morsi, a 60-year-old US-trained engineer from the Muslim Brotherhood, a fundamentalist group that has spent most of the 84 years since its inception as an outlawed organisation harshly targeted by successive governments.
Translated Hindi: "The people have given us a message and that message is for all Egyptians to come together to build a great nation, one nation, one people and one destiny."
Hindi: "Yeh din hai kabhi na bharosa tha, ek naya jivan ki nishani, j

Original English: Hundreds of soldiers and policemen guarded the building as Morsi arrived shortly after 11am local time in a small motorcade.
Translated Hindi: He was driven to the presidential palace, where he was expected to be placed in custody, a security official and a resident of the area said. The president’s supporters clashed with police overnight, despite a decree issued by the president on Thursday night that sought to defuse the crisis by granting himself sweeping new

Original English: Only several hundred supporters gathered outside the court to cheer the new president and, in a departure from the presidential pomp of the Mubarak years, traffic was only briefly halted to allow his motorcade through on the usually busy road linking the city centre with its southern suburbs.
Translated Hindi: Instead of the official presidential plane, Mursi flew with his family and aides on a regular commercial flight. The venue of the swearing-in ceremony was a small, nondescript sports complex not far from the court in the suburb of Nasr City, where the Constitutional Court is due to issue its

Original English: Derided as the Brotherhood's uncharismatic "spare tyre," his personal prestige has surged since his victory and his delivery of a Friday speech that tried to present him as a candidate not just of Islamists but of all those who want to complete the work of the 2011 uprising against the authoritarian Mubarak.
Translated Hindi: In a speech that lasted more than two hours, the former top UN diplomat first pledged to "continue the journey" started by the 2011 uprising, which toppled longtime president Hosni Mubarak. He also promised to be "tolerant" and to protect "the rights and dignity

Original English: "Egypt today is a civil, national, constitutional and modern state," Morsi, wearing a blue business suit and a red tie, told the judges in the wood-panelled chamber where he took the oath of office.
Translated Hindi: "It is the dream of Egyptians to build a modern state like other countries."
Hindi: "यूएपीसीसीडीईएसईएसईएसईएसई आ

Original English: Morsi later travelled to Cairo University where he was to make his inauguration address.
Translated Hindi: He was greeted by thousands of supporters who had waited patiently for the past several hours.

Hindi: मोसी बाद में कैरो विश्वविद्यालय जहां उन

Original English: He was given an official welcome by an army band that played the national anthem as he stood to attention.
Translated Hindi: He was presented with a bouquet of flowers and a traditional scarf.
Hindi: वह स्वतन्त्रता दिवस के अवसर पर एक अधिकारी के ज

Original English: Military ruler Field Marshal Hussein Tantawi was in attendance.
Translated Hindi: President Mohamed Morsy was not. The much-anticipated ceremony to swear in Egypt’s first civilian president and transfer power from the military to civilians ended as a spectacle of pomp and circumstance with the new president missing in action. The question of where Morsy was, or even if he was in

Original English: His arrival was greeted with chants of, "The army and the people are one hand," from the hundreds gathered in the university's main lecture room.
Translated Hindi: "We are with you, we are with you," they chanted, waving pro-Bashar al-Assad flags. "We are ready to sacrifice our blood, our souls, our children," they chanted. Later, the 45-year-old general, who is said to have a reputation for

Original English: Established in 1908 as a bastion of secular education, Cairo University later became a stronghold of Islamist student groups in the 1970s.
Translated Hindi: The campus has witnessed bloody battles, including the killing of two students in 2000, and has been the scene of mass protests in recent weeks. But it is the first time the university has been closed in its 100-year history.
Hindi: स्कूल कल

Original English: Morsi took a symbolic oath on Friday in Tahrir Square, birthplace of the uprising that ended Mubarak's authoritarian rule last year, and vowed to reclaim presidential powers stripped from his office by the military council that took over from the ousted leader.
Translated Hindi: "I swear by God to preserve the republican system and uphold the constitution and law and to protect the people," he said in his oath. "I swear by God to preserve Egypt's independence and territorial integrity and to respect international treaties and agreements." Morsi then signed the document into law, after which

Original English: But by agreeing to take the official oath before the court, rather than before parliament as is customary, he is bowing to the military's will in an indication that the contest for power will continue.
Translated Hindi: The military, which has ruled Pakistan for about half its 66-year history, insists that it was duty-bound to step in after widespread allegations of fraud in the February election and it has said that it will remain in charge in an interim role until new elections are held.
The military has been involved in

Original English: Morsi's speech in Tahrir Square was filled with dramatic populist gestures.
Translated Hindi: He promised to form a new government that would include members of Mubarak's old regime. He promised to investigate recent police violence that has left 40 protestors dead. He promised to revise the constitution to protect individual freedoms and to form a commission to investigate the deaths of protesters during the uprising. He

Original English: We receive hundreds of photos and news from our readers for our readers' column every day.
Translated Hindi: But we cannot publish all of them. But we have selected some of the best photos and news to publish them in our readers' column.
Hindi: Hum aurtein lakhon photo aur navaayen dekhate hain jo humare mera lekhakon ka column dekh

Original English: Some of which we are sharing with you here.
Translated Hindi: Do not worry about the spelling mistakes. We are not going to publish this letter. We will just send this letter to them. We are not going to show this letter to anyone.
Hindi: यहाँ हमें आपको शेयर क

Original English: Looking at these photos you will also say that they are very good and that the photographer has made good use of the opportunity.
Translated Hindi: The photographer is naturally skillful.
Hindi: Ab yeh photos dekh kar tum bhi isse keh sakte hain ki ye bahut achchhe hain aur photographer ko yeh kadam mila hai ki woh isse bahut achchhe se use kar

Original English: Every photo in the Readers' report has been taken from a different angle.
Translated Hindi: This is the photo that I like the best. This photo was taken from the bottom of the stairs. The photo has been taken from the top of the stairs. The photo has been taken from the right. I like this photo the most. The light is shining through the trees. The photo has

Original English: The slight change in the angle by the photographer has changed the mood of the photograph.
Translated Hindi: A slight change in the lighting also helped to create the mood of the photograph. 
Hindi: एक छोटा बदलाव फोटोग्राफर की तरह है ये

Original English: If you don't believe it, take a look for yourself.
Translated Hindi: You won't believe your eyes.
Hindi: Agar tumhe nahi pata ki aisa hua hai, toh dekhiye. Tumhe apne aankho se hi nazar aayegi.
I have translated the first sentence. The rest of the

Original English: If scrap is stored properly and with proper lighting it can also become a piece of art.
Translated Hindi: The best bags of scrap are the ones that are kept in a pile. This is because they are easier to get to and they look better. If you are looking for a way to give your room a unique look, you can always take your scrap bags and make them into a collage or a sculpture

Original English: Secretary of State John Kerry unexpectedly acknowledged that in the US spying has gone too far, in some cases.
Translated Hindi: He also stated that it would be “ideal” if the US could have access to the phone conversations of the people it is monitoring. He even added the possibility of US lawmakers demanding an end to its surveillance activities.
Hindi: उच्चाधिकार य

Original English: He also claimed that innocent people have been tortured under secret surveillance programs.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वह भी रहते हैं कि साधारण लोग महफ़िल रूप से गुप्त सुरक्षा प

Original English: Kerry's confession came while addressing the Open Government Partnership's annual summit in London via a video link.
Translated Hindi: It was his second video message since he became secretary of state in February. The first was on Wednesday for the International Women's Day. In his speech, Kerry said that open government was a principle that went back to the Magna Carta and the founding of the United States."As Secretary of State

Original English: Kerry said, "I assure you that innocent people were not being harassed in this process".
Translated Hindi: Hindi: करी बोला, "मैं आपको सुनाने को कहता हूँ कि साधारण लोग की किसी

Original English: But, in an effort to gain information, in some cases inappropriate methods had been used.
Translated Hindi: We have to avoid such methods, which would not only be ethically wrong but would also be ineffective.
Hindi: Lekin, kisi bhi prakar ka kaam karne ke dauran, sahi tarah se jankari prapt karne ke liye,

Original English: Meanwhile, a key committee of the U.S. Congress has approved a bill to limit the monitoring activities of the National Security Agency [NSA].
Translated Hindi: The House of Representatives Intelligence Committee, which is made up of lawmakers from both parties, is expected to vote to approve the so-called USA Freedom Act in the coming days. It calls for the NSA to end its bulk collection of phone records of millions of Americans. Instead, the agency would have to get

Original English: The aim of this is to make monitoring more transparent and to get back the trust of the people which has been lost following the disclosure of large scale phone tapping.
Translated Hindi: It is understood that the three Firms have submitted their proposals to the Govt and the Govt has appointed a senior person to go through the proposals. We are expecting that the Govt will soon appoint the 3 Firms. The Govt has also made it clear that the monitoring will not

Original English: This move by the Senate was welcomed by six U.S. companies including Google and Yahoo.
Translated Hindi: The online search engines are not required to keep a record of its users’ IP addresses and other personal details for two years as was earlier proposed by the House of Representatives. The move will help online search engines fight lawsuits from people who believe that their privacy has been violated as their personal information was collected without

Original English: The data centres in these companies have also been hacked by the NSA.
Translated Hindi: The data in these centres have been obtained through hacking.
Hindi: इन उपनययों में भी सरकारी डेटा केंद्र घेर गये ह

Original English: On Friday the select committee of the Senate passed a bill to amend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act(FISA)by 11 votes to 4.
Translated Hindi: The bill will now be presented to the full Senate for a final vote but a vote in the House of Representatives is still pending. The bill would allow the US to eavesdrop on electronic communications such as telephone calls and emails provided there was a reasonable suspicion that the communication was from a foreigner.

Original English: Many restrictions, including an outright ban on phone tapping, have been proposed in this bill, under the American Patriot Act.
Translated Hindi: The bill is essentially aimed at curbing terrorism.
Please translate the following text from Hindi to English:
एयरएमेरिकन पत्रिका में अगर आप इस कैलॅं

Original English: Deliberate, unauthorized collection and use of data under FISA will be treated as a criminal offence and will be punishable by up to ten years in prison.
Translated Hindi: The bill also requires the Attorney General to report annually to Congress on the number of times a business has received an order or directive under FISA. The bill further prohibits the government from requiring a company to create a new product or service, to alter an existing one, or to remove or degrade protection.

Original English: Once both Congress, the House of Representatives and the Senate pass the bill, it will become law.
Translated Hindi: And the government will start implementing it.
Hindi: Jab dono Congress aur House of Representatives aur Senate bill pass karega, to bill kanoon hoga. Aur government bill ko implement karega.

Hindi-English Translation Exercise 14

Translate the following text from English to

Original English: The Committee Chairman and Senator, Diane Festin, said that the NSA's program of recording phone calls is within the law, and believed it had contributed significantly to the country's security.
Translated Hindi: A court ruling in 2010, which permitted the NSA to collect millions of Americans' telephone records, was not challenged, Festin said.
Hindi: Committee Chairman and Senator, Diane Festin, said that NSA's program ofrecording phone calls is within the law, and believed it had

Original English: However, there should be more transparency.
Translated Hindi: In the past, the Commission has not always been transparent, but it is making efforts to do that and I hope that the Parliament will continue to help it in this regard. Also, there is a need to make a distinction between the trading of carbon credits and the trading of carbon dioxide emissions.
H

Original English: Not only that, the protection of personal privacy should also be kept in mind.
Translated Hindi: It should be ensured that there are no illegal activities or activities violating privacy. It is the duty of the government to ensure that the personal data of citizens are not misused. Moreover, the government should also ensure that the data of common people is not misused. The government should also give legal protection

Original English: Meanwhile, Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, Apple, AOL and Facebook, disturbed by the revelation of the NSA's Internet surveillance program, have supported this bill.
Translated Hindi: They believe the government has gone too far to protect the privacy of their users and the American public.
Hindi: वहाँ भी गूगल, यहूदी, मिस्ट्रीस कलम,

Original English: In letters written to the senators all these companies have said that the senators' proposal to restrict the NSA's large scale phone tapping is welcomed by them.
Translated Hindi: But they have called for a complete ban on the NSA's access to their servers.
Hindi: इन लेटर्स में सीनेटर्स से लिखे गए लेटर्स म

Original English: It is noteworthy that the documents released by the former CIA employee Edward Snowden made the actions of the NSA public.
Translated Hindi: These actions are illegal and unconstitutional and merit the anger of the international community. The world has learned that the NSA is eavesdropping on the entire world, including its own friends and allies, as well as its own citizens. In other words, it is spying on everyone.
Hindi: Is

Original English: The NSA's monitoring of the phone conversations of the presidents of 35 countries, including Germany and France, had caused a huge uproar in the international community.
Translated Hindi: The documents of Edward Snowden, which were released just a few days ago, revealed that the United States had spied on the phone of the German chancellor Angela Merkel, which created a storm in Germany. The German media reported that the NSA had been monitoring the phone conversations of the heads of state and government

Original English: The State Media member Ajay Rai said he will begin his extensive campaign on the 4th of November.
Translated Hindi: He will be doing a tour of all the 80 assembly constituencies of the state in which he will be addressing 80 meetings.
Hindi: राज्य की मीडिया में अजय राय न

Original English: Bhagat will be focusing his efforts in the Assembly constituencies in Chhatisgarh, adjacent to Jharkhand.
Translated Hindi: This will form a contiguous area which will benefit from our efforts.
Hindi: भगट लगवाने वाला इन तलाकों में कार्यकर्ता क

Original English: He knows these areas very well.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Wo ye area sabse acche se jaanta hai.
Translation: Translation of English sentence to Hindi sentence.
72
Point 3
He knows these areas very well.
Pehle woh ye area sabse acche se jaanta tha.
Pehle woh ye area

Original English: He will travel in Chhattisgarh continuously until November 16th.
Translated Hindi: (one sentence)
Hindi: उन्होंने चतुर्थीगढ़ के राज्य में अनेक दिनों तक दौ

Original English: Jharkhandi leaders are in great demand in the electoral battle in Chhattisgarh.
Translated Hindi: While the Congress has fielded former chief minister Shibu Soren, the BJP has roped in ex-chief minister Babulal Marandi. The Samajwadi Party has fielded former minister Surendra Singh Mahato, who was sacked from the Narendra Modi government after he questioned the PM

Original English: More than two dozen leaders of the BJP are already there.
Translated Hindi: They have been waiting for an opportunity to come to power. I am confident that we will be able to form the next government.
Hindi: बीजेपी के 24 लोगों ने इसी बारे

Original English: Congress had urged the JMM chief, Shibu Soren, and Chief Minister, Hemant Soren, to campaign on behalf of the party in Chhattisgarh, which JMM's top leadership has accepted.
Translated Hindi: Shibu Soren will campaign in Chhattisgarh on behalf of the congress party from 17th October onwards.
Hindi: Congress ne JMM ke chhote aur bade sangathan ke pradhanmantri Shibu Soren aur Hemant Soren ko Chhattis

Original English: The JMM withdrew its 10 candidates announced earlier from the elections.
Translated Hindi: The party has declared to give support to the Congress candidate in the Chhatarpur constituency of Madhya Pradesh.
Hindi: जेएमएम ने कांग्रेस के चहतपुर खंड क

Original English: The JMM has told the Chhatisgarh State committee that all its leaders must actively join in the campaign for Congress.
Translated Hindi: The decision was taken in a meeting of the workers of the Party’s Jharkhand unit held here. The Chhatisgarh State Committee of the JMM has also decided to launch a "Vikas Abhiyan", a strategy to reach out to the people and spread awareness about

Original English: As per the issued notification Dr. Girish Sharma has been promoted from Assistant Professor to the post of Associate Professor in the Anaesthesia Department, Dr. Divya Vashishth from lecturer in the College of Dentistry, Simla to the post of Assistant Professor in the Prosthetics Department, Dr. Geetaram Tekta from Assistant Professor to the post of Associate Professor in the Department of Skin Diseases and Dr. Renu Gupta has been appointed to the post of professor in the College of Dentistry, Simla.
Translated Hindi: 

Original English: The government cancelled the transfer order of Neeraj Sharma, the Senior Superintendent of the CMO office, Simla on Friday.
Translated Hindi: The sources said that the order was cancelled because of the widespread public criticism. The government had transferred him to the Economics and Planning Department last week. The transfer of Neeraj Sharma, who is considered the close confidante of the Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh and his wife Pratib

Original English: He has been posted in DDU, Simla.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Vah DDU Simla me post ho gaya hai.  (This is not a direct translation. Because the meaning of the sentence is different. In fact, he is not in Simla, but he is posted in Simla)

I hope this answers your question.

Original English: He was transferred to the Simla Dental College. He has been under transfer since 24th October.
Translated Hindi: He has been transferred to the S. D. College, Simla.
Hindi: Wo Shaivalik Nai Yojna ke Adhikariyon se apani Shiksha Prapt karane ke liye Simla Se, Sharirik Chikitsa Kary

Original English: Irrigation and Public Health Department Assistant Engineer, Ashok Kumar Choudhary, has been transferred from the Kangra sub-division to the Dharamsala zone.
Translated Hindi: The Additional Director of Medical Education, Dr. SS Negi, has been transferred from the Dharamsala zone to the Kangra sub-division.
Hindi: जल एव स्वास्थ्य विभाग का इ

Original English: Assistant Engineer, Jagat Ram Chaudhary, has been sent from Guglada (Kangra) to the Kangra sub-division.
Translated Hindi: He has started from Guglada at 11:00 a.m. today (October 24). 
Hindi: Assistant Engineer, Jagat Ram Chaudhary, guglada (Kangra) se sub division ke liye jata hai. Guglada

Original English: The bail plea hearing of the former Chief of the Army, General Pervez Musharraf, in the case of the Lal Masjid cleric murder has been postponed until November 4th.
Translated Hindi: He has been given a 24 hour extension in the time period to hire a lawyer.
Hindi: अलमारी के अध्यक्ष पेरवे मुशरफ ने लाल म

Original English: The next hearing of the case against Musharraf will be held on November 11.
Translated Hindi: The court has issued summons to Musharraf to appear before it. The court has also summoned documents of the case.
Hindi: ये गया उम्मीद है कि, अगल घटना

Original English: In 2007, during the military campaign launched against the fanatics hiding in Lal Masjid, cleric Abdul Rashid Ghazi was killed.
Translated Hindi: In 2008, he was killed again, this time, by the police. The police claim he was killed during the final encounter and that information was found from his laptop that would have further endangered the lives of the police. However, the claim was rejected by his father, Maulana Abdul Az

Original English: The police have already declared Musharraf innocent, which was a great relief for him.
Translated Hindi: I have known him for a long time. He is a sincere president and a brave soldier. He has been doing his best to protect the country. I wish all the best to him.
Hindi: Police ne Musharraf ko innocent declare kar diya hai, jiss se woh bah

Original English: The police said then that President Musharraf did not play a direct role in the assassination of the cleric.
Translated Hindi: But now a letter surfaced that points to a different story.
Hindi: Police ne is baat par kaha tha ki, Musharraf ne aisi koi direct role nahi nibha di thi. Par ab ek letter aa gaya hai, jo pehle ki sari ba

Original English: Islamabad Additional District and Sessions Judge (ADSJ), Wajid Ali, is presiding over Musharraf's bail hearing.
Translated Hindi: On the day of hearing, 1st of March, the ADSJ said that the cases against Musharraf were political ones and the court did not have jurisdiction to hear them. The judge further said that only the Supreme Court of Pakistan had the jurisdiction to hear these cases. Later on the day

Original English: During the hearing Tarik Asad, the counsel of the Lal Masjid Shuhada Foundation representative and complainant, accused the police of destroying all the evidences of Musharraf's innocence.
Translated Hindi: The counsel said that Musharraf's lawyer is fair in his representation of his client and he is not afraid of the law.
Hindi: तारख असद, लाल मसजद शहद निव

Original English: Counsel asked the court for more time to present more evidence in this case.
Translated Hindi: They believed that the evidence they already had was insufficient to convict the defendant. The judge denied the motion and ordered the jury to return to the deliberation room. The court adjourned for the night.
Hindi: अधिक दस्तावेज

Original English: Subsequently, the court adjourned the bail of Mushraf hearing until November 4th.
Translated Hindi: After the hearing, Mushraf left the court without giving any comment to the media.
Hindi: ( बदलोगी गयी भी जाने के लिए अब इस कोर

Original English: On Thursday, the Organisation for the Welfare of the Disabled held a meeting to discuss the welfare of the disabled in the town.
Translated Hindi: A large number of disabled people attended the meeting. The participants shared their experience and opinions on the welfare of the disabled.
Hindi: बुधवार, अध्यादेश के अनुसार बाल

Original English: It was presided over by Vinod Sharma, senior vice-chairman of the organization.
Translated Hindi: "The 2nd round of talks will be held on 9 August to 11 August, 2010 in Delhi and it will be presided over by the same person and member of the organization, Dr. D. K. Agrawal," Sharma said. "The first round of

Original English: After the meeting the disabled demonstrated against the administration and submitted a memorandum to the SDM Naushera.
Translated Hindi: The memorandum demanded that the government should create a separate department for the disabled and in addition the district administration should make a separate budget for this section.
Hindi: पत्र भाषण के बाद बलिदानियों से

Original English: Vinod Sharma, while addressing a meeting of the disabled, said that persons with disabilities should receive special concessions for government jobs.
Translated Hindi: He said this after addressing a meeting of the disabled at the state secretariat.
Hindi: विनोद शर्मा के उपाध्यक्ष करेंगे आयुष्य

Original English: The disabled should receive promotion in the various government departments based on SCST quotas.
Translated Hindi: There should be special provisions in all jobs, including government clerical work.
Hindi: “Bhiksha ko rokne ke liye, koi kam nahi. Lekin yaad rakhe, ki IAS ya IPS, jaise bade adhikaar ke

Original English: The monthly pension should be raised from Rs. 400 to Rs. 2,000.
Translated Hindi: The state should also construct houses and distribute them to the political leaders and officials.
Hindi: Monthly pension ke liye 400 rupee se 2000 rupee tak badhaiye. State ke political leaders aur government ke officials ke liye bhi ghar bana kar unhein

Original English: A prosthesis camp should be organized in Tehsil Naushera and a rehabilitation centre should be opened in Rajouri.
Translated Hindi: The prosthetic limbs and other aids and appliances should be available free of cost in the first year of the accident and at a nominal cost in the future years. The injured should not be made to wait for 20 days for the free prosthetic aids. The injured should be given a monthly honorarium

Original English: The disabled also protested with their demands.
Translated Hindi: They demanded that they should be given work, not charity. If someone was not ready to give them work, they should be paid compensation. This would give them self-respect. They demanded that they be given education. This would give them respect in society.
Hindi: बेरो

Original English: After the meeting, the disabled presented the Naushera SDM, Dipti Uppal, with a memorandum of their demands.
Translated Hindi: Dipti Uppal assured them that their demands would be met and said that a tripartite meeting would be held with all stakeholders to discuss the issue. The disabled then demanded that the tripartite meet be held at Naushera itself. The SDM didn't agree to this.

Original English: The Naushera SDM assured the disabled that their problems could be resolved.
Translated Hindi: He added that he would personally monitor the issue every month. He also requested them to inform the authorities about their problems.
Hindi: Naushera SDM ne disabled ko bataya ki unke koi bhi samasya dur karne ki koshish karenge. Unhone

Original English: In the U.S.A. an Indian doctor has been sentenced to 2.5 years in prison for fraud.
Translated Hindi: He is accused of performing tests to get insurance money. He also charged patients for unnecessary procedures. The doctor was found guilty of fraud and conspiracy. He is now ordered to reimburse US$ 1.2 million.
Hindi: अमेरीका में एक

Original English: The doctor had made a false medical insurance claim for services that he had never provided.
Translated Hindi: The doctor was convicted of insurance fraud and sentenced to jail. Hindi: डॉक्टर ने सर्विस के लिए कोई न कोई विशेष एजें

Original English: Western District of Oklahoma U.S. Attorney, Sanford Coats, said in a statement that the native of Oklahoma, Amarnath Bhandari (53), was sentenced to 30 months imprisonment.
Translated Hindi: He was also ordered to pay $2.7 million in restitution to victims and $1.2 million in forfeitures.
Hindi: वेस्टर्न डिस्ट्रीट ऑफ ऑक्लहोमा

Original English: He was also fined $20,000.
Translated Hindi: That's not all. He has been banned from the tour for one year. He has also been fined 100% of his match fees.
Hindi: उसने एक साल के लिए टूर से निष

Original English: Bhandari was also ordered to compensate Medicare.
Translated Hindi: $1.5 million and to pay $132,000 in attorneys fees. According to the DOJ press release, Bhandari was sentenced to 10 years in prison and ordered to pay $1.5 million in restitution and $132,000 in attorneys fees. The DOJ press release states that

Original English: An order to seize some of his property was also given.
Translated Hindi: The police went to his home at 12p.m. but he was not there. He had gone to Gurgaon. He had a car and a scooter. He used to send his car to Gurgaon for work. He had left the car there. The police took the car and

Original English: Dr. Bhandari had a license to practice in Oklahoma.
Translated Hindi: She was born in India and came to the United States at age 10. She studied medicine in India and was trained as a physician in America. After 12 years of medical practice in India, she passed the US Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE). She then became a US Citizen and started to

Original English: In March last year a federal jury had also charged him with the illegal distribution of controlled drugs.
Translated Hindi: The sentencing hearing is set for September 1st.
Hindi:
14. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: शहर महिलाओं के लिये मनुष्य से एहस

Original English: This year in April a trial was held in the federal court in Oklahoma.
Translated Hindi: The jury found the company liable for creating a public nuisance and ordered the company to pay $17.5 billion in damages to the people affected by the discharge of waste from the wells. However, the court did not order the company to stop the discharge of the waste from the wells. The company plans

Original English: However, the jury did not reach a decision in the case.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: कलाएँ, अपराध की मामले में सत्ता नहीं बना पाया है.
Q: Is the following statement true or false? Fill in the

Original English: Para-military forces have been deployed, from the forest to the town, for security purposes.
Translated Hindi: It is very important for people to cooperate with these forces during the crisis. People should not be afraid of them, but they must listen to them and obey their orders. Police have been given the right to search houses without warrant and to arrest people without a court order. But they will not abuse these

Original English: The forces are protecting polling stations in Bastar, Rajnandgaon and Dhamtari.
Translated Hindi: The police and CRPF are conducting combing operations. We have already arrested a few people involved in the violence.
Hindi: Sarkari aayog ko sahayak kar rahe hain Bastar, Rajnandgaon aur Dhamtari ke polling stations. Police aur CR

Original English: According to police officers, the Naxal operation is continuing at the border.
Translated Hindi: Security forces are working on the border continuously. The security forces are trying to stop the Naxalites from entering the border and are trying to stop the Naxalites from entering the border from both sides.
Hindi: According to police officers, the Naxal operation is continuing at the

Original English: 80 platoons have been deployed in the district as this a Naxal affected area.
Translated Hindi: They will be deployed to ensure that the polling booths are safe and that no untoward incident takes place during the elections.
Hindi: जिले में Naxalit लड़ाई में जाने वाल

Original English: All forces have come from their respective regions.
Translated Hindi: The National liberation front has been formed. They are ready to fight the Afghan Army and the Russians for their freedom and independence. They will defeat the Russians and the Afghan Army as soon as they come.
The Russians want to make Afghanistan a Russian colony. They have occupied the country. They are committing all

Original English: During the elections, intelligence reported the possibility of a Naxal attack.
Translated Hindi: The security agencies then deployed four companies of CRPF. The security forces were also provided with 5 helicopters.
Hindi: चुनावों के दौरान अधिकारान्तरणों प

Original English: An alert has been issued.
Translated Hindi: Please contact the system administrator for more information.
Hindi: अद्यतन करें। प्रकाशित करें। अधिक जानकारी के लिए ह

Original English: The forces have increased their searches and Naxal operations.
Translated Hindi: This has led to a confrontation between the forces and Naxals that has resulted in the death of 8 soldiers in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh. The pressure on the Naxals forced them to attack the forces. The forces retaliated in a heavy manner and killed 8

Original English: The CSP, Mohan Dubey, said security arrangements have been tightened for the festival, before the elections are held.
Translated Hindi: This year, a large number of tourists are expected to visit the city, during the festival. The police inspector, Mohan Dubey, said that security arrangements have been made on a war footing. People come here to enjoy the festival, but they should not forget that their life is important. Therefore

Original English: Armed paramilitary soldiers have been deployed at the Manav Mandir Chowk, Bharat Mata Chowk, Basantapur, Jaystamb Square, Imam Square and Ganj Chowk in the city.
Translated Hindi: New constables have been deployed, along with the existing police force, for security. The deployment was made to ensure security and safety in the city, as the holy month of Ramzan begins.
Hindi: प्र वड राजध ान वर

Original English: Police are also carrying out patrols.
Translated Hindi: They are also doing things that are not only in the interest of public but also in their own interest. They themselves are in the danger of getting caught. If they are made to do something, then it is also possible that they will be caught. Therefore, they are trying to act as a shield

Original English: Simultaneously detention of goons is also being carried out.
Translated Hindi: The police has been directed to act against criminals and goondas.
Hindi: अभियुक्तों को साथ ही साथ पुलिस ने अधिकारियों क

Original English: Efforts are being made to avoid any untoward incident during the elections and Diwali.
Translated Hindi: It should be borne in mind that it is not the right time to arrange for the marriage or any other ceremony during this period. All are requested to cooperate with the administration in this regard.
Hindi: Ek vyakti alag-rang se shubh ashubh ke vyavast

Original English: Thereafter, he continued the maltreatment.
Translated Hindi: He would often beat me and my mother and often cut off our food supply. He would not allow us to open windows or even go out. Despite all this, the relationship between my father and me never broke. He was the only one who always supported me. He was the only one to whom

Original English: Furthermore, on the suspicion that she was pregnant, she was taken to hospital for an abortion.
Translated Hindi: The doctor who carried out the abortion said that she was pregnant, and that she had been for some time. The police also took her to the hospital for a second medical examination. The second medical examination confirmed that the girl was pregnant, and that she was probably at least six months' pregnant. The

Original English: Then he took her home and tried to make her drink poison.
Translated Hindi: But the child was too clever for him. The poison did not touch her mouth.
Hindi: वह उसका साथ भेजकर तभी उस्ताद को बड़ी ख

Original English: When the minor's family proposed marriage with the youth, the youth's family physically abused them.
Translated Hindi: As a result, the youth's family was also beaten up by the minor's family.
Hindi: Jab beti ki parivar ne pahle shadi ka proposal diya to
youth's family ne unko chunaav ke karan kuchh tang kar diya

Original English: Police have registered a case against the youth, his brother and his parents.
Translated Hindi: The registration of the case was made on the complaint of the woman; this is a potential case for social boycott.
Hindi: Police ne jahaan bhi bachche ki naukri nahi thi aur unke ghar ki aadhi nahin thi, to uske saath

Original English: According to the minor three years ago she met Gaurav, the son of Ramesh, a resident of Mallital.
Translated Hindi: He was a good looking and educated boy. Ramesh met Gaurav's parents in the market.
Hindi: थोपलय तथा पुनः दो वर्षों में इन्ह

Original English: He then lured her to his house and had sexual relations.
Translated Hindi: He then took her to his sister’s house and kept her confined there for four days. At night, he took her to a room which he had reserved for sexual intercourse with her. She started crying and said that she was an underage girl and that she had been raped by her uncle. The accused

Original English: He then continued to mistreat her, constantly under threat.
Translated Hindi: His girlfriend didn’t know what to do. She was afraid of him, and afraid of leaving him. She was confused, she cried. She didn’t know what was right, what was wrong; she didn’t know what to do. She didn’t even know that she was in a violent relationship

Original English: Last October 18th he took Kishori away.
Translated Hindi: Her kitabat was shod, which indicates that she was pregnant.
Hindi: Parternar ke baad is mahine 18th Oct. ko, Kishori ko lekar unhone bahar chali gayi.
Her kitabat was shod, which indicates that

Original English: On the 21st he tried to kill her by giving her poison instead of medicine.
Translated Hindi: He then proceeded to beat her to death with a hammer.
Hindi: 21 ko wo usse sharab pilakar usse jalane ki koshish karega. Phir usne uska hath katne ki koshish ki.
Uttarakhand Districts

Original English: When the girl's condition deteriorated she was treated in the BD Pande Hospital.
Translated Hindi: The doctors at the Pande Hospital said that the girl's condition worsened after she was taken to the Pande Hospital. She was referred to the civil hospital where it was confirmed that she was suffering from dengue. The girl's condition further deteriorated and she was referred to a private hospital

Original English: Meanwhile, the family attempted to make them get married, but he refused.
Translated Hindi: They were the only ones who were not in agreement with his marriage. I am the daughter of this family. My father died when I was still young. The only thing I remember is that he used to tell me that I was a special child, and that one day I would be a great person

Original English: Not only that, Anand the brother of the accused also was in a fight on Degree College Road.
Translated Hindi: When he was taking his brother away, the accused hit him on his head with an iron rod. He was admitted to a hospital in a critical condition. But he succumbed to his injuries after some days. The accused was arrested from his house.
Hindi: Na tumhein pata hai

Original English: Inspector B.D. Juyal said that on the basis of an investigation, a case has been filed under sections 276, 323, 506 against the youth Gaurav, his brother Anand, mother Kunti and father Prakash.
Translated Hindi: Kunti was not arrested. The police have not registered a case against any of the three accused in connection with the incident.
Hindi: इंस्पेक्टर बी डी जुयाल ने कहा क

Original English: This case is being handled by the SI, Rajendra Kumar.
Translated Hindi: Please contact him for further information.
Hindi: हमारे कार्यालय में एक दस्तावेज पर चल रही एक स्थाई कें

Original English: Thought travel agents were a thing of the past thanks to the internet?
Translated Hindi: Think again. Travel agents are getting creative to stay competitive in the industry. They are now offering free travel guides, discounts, and even a window into the world of travel. The best thing is that you do not need to spend a lot of money on a travel agent. These services can be had

Original English: Flight Centre seem to be bucking the trend.
Translated Hindi: The travel group, which is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange, has been on a roll, posting 24 consecutive months of record sales. In 2010, Flight Centre posted a 22% increase in sales over the previous year. This year, it looks like they will beat their own record

Original English: The company has upgraded its full year profit forecast and is looking to record earnings from holidaymakers in Australia and the United Kingdom.
Translated Hindi: The company is now forecasting earnings per share of $1.11 to $1.21. This is up from the previous forecast of $1.02 to $1.12.
Hindi: नौकरी, यह नौकरी ह

Original English: The travel company now expects its full year underlying profit before tax to be between $325 million and $340 million, compared with the $305 million to $315 million it previously forecast.
Translated Hindi: The company said it now expects its underlying profit after tax to be between $250 million to $265 million, compared with the previous forecast of $235 million to $245 million.
Hindi: यह व्यवसाय की उच्च

Original English: If the current guidance is achieved it will represent a 12 to 17 per cent growth on the record $290.4 million profit it achieved in 2011/12.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Agar ye bhaagidari raashtriy saamiksha ke saath aaye to, isse 12-17 per cent ka siddh hoga, jisne 2011/12 mein 290.4 million dollar profit paay

Original English: Managing director Graham Turner said Flight Centre had made 8 per cent profit in the first half and had started the second half strongly especially in Australian and UK non-business travel.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Flight Center (फ्लाइट सेंटर) के कंट्रोल डायरेक्टर ग्रेहम ट्यूर्नर ने

Original English: "Year-to-date, our 10 countries are profitable and several are on track for record full-year earnings before interest and tax contributions," he said.
Translated Hindi: "The Australian economy is performing well, with the unemployment rate at its lowest in almost seven years. However, despite the strong employment numbers, wages growth remains too low, while consumer and business confidence has been mixed." Hindi: "वर्ष अवधि,

Original English: This includes Australia and the United Kingdom, which are typically our largest profit generators.
Translated Hindi: However, exports to the US, Belgium and France grew at double-digit rates, and we expect this trend to continue.
Hindi: Isse include karne chahiye Australia aur UK, jo typically humari sabse badi profite generate karne ki jagah hai. Lekin

Original English: In Australia the leisure business rebounded during the second half which offset a slightly weaker domestic corporate travel market.
Translated Hindi: All regions delivered growth with the exception of new Zealand, which was down slightly. Corporate travel revenue declined by 4.2% in the 2012 financial year reflecting the impact of the general economic uncertainty on corporate travel.
Hindi: ऑस्ट्रेलिया म

Original English: Similarly in the UK, Flight Centre's leisure business performed well while corporate clients were spending less.
Translated Hindi: The group's retail business is showing excellent growth with EBIT up 16.2%.
Hindi: उसी तरह ये अंग्रेजी देश में भी Flight Centre की शर

Original English: Its US business had recovered its losses during its seasonally weaker first half and was expected to deliver its third consecutive full year profit.
Translated Hindi: It expected its UK business to upturn in the second half.
Hindi: यह कॉमनवेलथ तकनीकी उपकरण और डिजाइन विकास

Original English: Flight Centre shares were up 3c at $38.20 yesterday.
Translated Hindi: It is expected that the company will be able to meet its guidance for earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of $78.5 million in the year to end-June. The shares were a top performer on the ASX yesterday after the company said it sold a record 83,

Original English: In a recent media report it was said that the NSA hacked into the data centres of Yahoo and Google for surveillance.
Translated Hindi: This is a gross violation of the privacy of the people of the United States and the world. It is also a direct infringement of the sovereignty of the country. Russia and China have been indulging in such activities. But America, which claims to be the leader of the free world, should have been

Original English: The Washington Post exposed this based on the documents collected by former NSA contractor, Edward Snowden.
Translated Hindi: The revelations have raised concerns globally about the extent of surveillance that the government of USA has been carrying out on its citizens. The US government has been highly secretive about its surveillance activities and has resisted all efforts to impose checks on the same.
Hindi: Washington Post ne is baat ko pehle

Original English: According to the report, the NSA program was called Muscular, and was run together with their British counterpart - GCHQ.
Translated Hindi: It used the same software suite that the NSA uses to target people of interest. This software, called XKEYSCORE, is one of the NSA's most powerful tools for spying on people's Web traffic. One slide says XKEYSCORE allows users to spy on "any select or all Internet activity of

Original English: Both agencies stole data passing through the vast network of fibre optic cables laid by Yahoo and Google.
Translated Hindi: The Chinese, Russian, and British are tracks. The Chinese, Russian, and British are the worst perpetrators.
Hindi: बहुत सारे देशों के लिए है, जैसे चाइ

Original English: On January 9th, 2013 the Washington Post reported, quoting a top secret document, that more than 18 million documents were stolen within just 3 days from the beginning of the program.
Translated Hindi: The report also mentioned that the NSA had such a program called XKeyscore, which was capable of tapping into the main servers of Yahoo, Google and others, and could provide access to almost anything a person does on the internet such as emails, chat rooms, online games, search engines etc.
H

Original English: These included email, text, audio and video messages.
Translated Hindi: The company said it had seen a 40 per cent increase in calls last year, with most of the increase in the UK.
Hindi: ये एमआईएल विडीज़, टेक्स्ट

Original English: According to the Washington Post the program was run out of the U.S. and an anonymous telecommunications provider helped the NSA to access this information.
Translated Hindi: The U.S. government first learned of the program when the whistleblower Edward Snowden revealed the program to the public. Snowden is currently living in Russia and has been granted temporary asylum. The U.S. government is currently under fire for the program and Obama has ordered an audit to determine the effectiveness of the program

Original English: According to the newspaper it was much easier for the NSA to run the program outside the U.S. because in the U.S. such campaigns must have court orders.
Translated Hindi: This is not the case in other countries. The program is not about spying on Americans; its about keeping Americans safe.
Hindi: आज कल अध्यक्ष एनएसए यह शिक्षा

Original English: During a press conference in Washington the NSA Chief, General Keith Alexander, denied these allegations saying, "As far as I know, this never happened.
Translated Hindi: This is a dumb policy, because you can't guarantee the security of the information you need to protect. Is it a good idea? No. Can you do it? Yes, but it's difficult." Hindi: यू. एस. एणा ची

Original English: The NSA has always gathered its information only within the framework of the law".
Translated Hindi: -- NSA Director Keith Alexander, speaking at the 2012 Aspen Security Forum.
Hindi: हमारे सरकारी अध्यक्ष के अनुसार नेटवर्क सुर

Original English: The NSA recently became a target after spying on the German Chancellor.
Translated Hindi: The U.S. has apologized and has announced that it will stop spying on the German government. The same goes for spying on France and Brazil.
Translate the following text from Hindi to English: नगर निगम ने रजिस्ट्र

Original English: The United Nations said on Wednesday that the U.S. government has issued assurances that communications are not being monitored.
Translated Hindi: A new report from the U.N. Group of Governmental Experts on Communications Surveillance recommended that all states should make sure that they do not violate international law or the privacy of people in other countries.
Hindi: यह पूर्व विदेशों म

Original English: The U.S. also said that the United Nations communication system is not being monitored.
Translated Hindi: The U.S. has made it clear that it is not monitoring the UN communications. The U.S. has made it clear that it is not monitoring the UN communications.
Hindi: अमेरिका का सामाजिक विश्ल

Original English: The BJP leader and prime ministerial candidate for Gujarat, Chief Minister Narendra Modi's most trusted aide, Amit Shah's brother arrived on Thursday afternoon in Gaya with his family.
Translated Hindi: He was arrested and whisked away. Shah is a Rajya Sabha member and a close associate of Modi who was dropped from his cabinet in 2010 following the Ishrat Jahan encounter killing. Ishrat was a student who was allegedly gunned down by the Gujarat police along with three others.

Original English: District President Jainendra Kumar, National Convener of Non-conventional Energy Sources, Krishan Kumar Singh, Anil Singh an MLA of Hisua from Nawada, Anil Swami, Shyama Singh, Mukesh Kumar along with many other leaders were at Mr. Shah's private function.
Translated Hindi: Mr. Shah is the secretary and national convener of the National Youth Congress. Mr. Shah is from Bihar. He is a very energetic and dynamic leader of the National Youth Congress.
Hindi: राज्य प्रभारी जैनेन

Original English: District President Mr. Kumar said Mr. Shah, along with his family, went to worship and pray to Shaktipeeth's mother at the Kamakhya temple in Assam and arrived at Gaya Airport on a special plane.
Translated Hindi: He left for Gaya from Gauhati. But on the way, at Bhagalpur, he had two heart attacks and died on the way. The Prime Minister's family has ordered the prime mover to take immediate action. Mr. Shah arrived at Gaya from Delhi in the early morning

Original English: Then they directly went to pay obeisance at the feet of the Shaktipeeth mother, Mangala Gauri.
Translated Hindi: The darshan of the mother was very pleasant. She was sitting on the lap of her husband, Parameshwara. She was wearing a yellow saree. Her body was glowing. She was looking very beautiful. She was wearing her crown, which was made of emeralds. She was

Original English: After the worship and prayer at the Vishnupad temple he went back on a special plane.
Translated Hindi: He stayed at the Vishnu Mandir for a while to rest and then left on his way to the airport.
Hindi: Vishnupad ke mandir par bhakti aur jap karte hi usne special plane se laut aaya. Vishnupad ke mandir mein th

Original English: District President Mr. Kumar said that, for security reasons, Mr. Shah's program had not been made public.
Translated Hindi: The President, the secretary and the treasurer should be kept in the dark. The committee had decided to keep this information secret from Mr. Mahadik and Mr. Sawant, the two Panchayat members. The President had decided that, if the public found out, they would try to

Original English: Schools urged to focus more on maths, spelling and grammar
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: वि‍द्यालयों को सामान्‍य गणित, शब्‍दप्रयोग और व

Original English: English literature courses will require pupils to study at least one Shakespeare play, a 19th century novel, Romantic poetry and contemporary British fiction from 1914 onwards.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इंग्लिश लिटरेचर कोर्स में बच्चों को शैक्षिक बीच एक शेखर क

Original English: The exam will also feature "unseen texts" to encourage wider reading;
Translated Hindi: they may include works by contemporary writers which have been published in the last 10 years or even earlier. The students will be asked to choose from a list of texts from a diverse range of themes and genres.
Hindi: इस परीक्षा में भ

Original English: A combined English literature and language course will be scrapped.
Translated Hindi: The English Literature A-level is to be replaced with an English Language A-level. The move comes after the English Language A-level was introduced in 2015. The changes were announced in the Department of Education’s consultation document on the A-level reform. An A-level in English Literature, English Language and

Original English: From 2015, pupils will be required to take a standalone GCSE in language, with strong incentives to choose English literature as a separate qualification.
Translated Hindi: This will be an important step in ensuring that the teaching of English literature in schools is valued and recognised by Ofqual, and by the awarding organisations that set and mark the exam. It will also place English literature more firmly in the curriculum, alongside other core subjects, giving it its rightful place as

Original English: The Department for Education is due to release the new syllabuses in English and maths tomorrow - the first subjects to undergo a radical overhaul.
Translated Hindi: The new GCSEs in English and maths are being brought in to replace the current level 2 exams, which are considered to be too easy. The exams will be graded from 9 to 1, instead of A* to G. The grade 9 will be the top grade, and

Original English: It will make changes in other core subjects next year.
Translated Hindi: The project will be completed by June 2017.
Hindi: अन्य क्लेसेस में किसी और कोर माध्यम इस वर्ष बदलें

Original English: In a separate move, Ofqual, the exams regulator, will unveil a shake-up of the structure of GCSEs, with a new grading system and less coursework.
Translated Hindi: Traditional exams will retain high marks while coursework will be given lower grades.
Hindi: एक अलग निषेध, ओएफक्ल, एक एग्रमीटर, द

Original English: Speaking in the summer, Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, said there was a "widespread consensus that we need to reform our examination system to restore public confidence," insisting GCSEs would be "more challenging, more ambitious and more rigorous."
Translated Hindi: He said the new GCSEs would be more rigorous and more challenging than the current GCSEs, with a 3 instead of a 2 for the grade one below the highest. Mr Gove also said he expected most pupils would choose to study the new exam, rather than GCSEs

Original English: Studies show that English schools devote less time to maths - 116 hours a year or three hours a week during term time - than in most countries.
Translated Hindi: In the United States, for example, schools spend an average of five hours a week on maths, while in Japan it is seven hours. The report also found that, in England, the time devoted to maths is declining. One in four schools spend less than two hours a week teaching maths - the

Original English: By comparison, Australian schools provide an average of 143 hours a year and pupils do around 138 hours in Singapore.
Translated Hindi: English: By comparison, Australian schools provide an average of 143 hours a year and pupils do around 138 hours in Singapore. Hindi: यहाँ में भारतीय विद्यालयों में

Original English: While there will be no formal requirement to devote more of the timetable to maths, Coalition sources said the extensive maths GCSE - combined with more weighting for the subject in league tables - was likely to encourage schools to provide extra teaching.
Translated Hindi: The change is likely to be included in the Green Paper outlining the Government's plans to reform schools published early next year.
Hindi: किंवा रत्ते द्वारा माध्यमिक शिक्ष

Original English: The syllabus will place a greater focus on "real world problems," including financial mathematics.
Translated Hindi: Students will be challenged to develop their critical thinking skills as they learn about the major problems that face the world today, such as pollution, poverty, and global warming.
Hindi: कालेज का सिलेबस उद्योग के

Original English: The Supreme Court has refused to ban media reporting.
Translated Hindi: The court has said that media coverage is a part of democracy because it is a part of public debate and expression. The court has said that the media is playing an important role in highlighting the issues in the interest of the public. The court has said that media reports are necessary for the public to know

Original English: The Supreme Court said that they cannot ask the media to stop reporting information collected from the police or any other source.
Translated Hindi: The court said that the media could be told to blackout the names of minors and victims.
Hindi: Shri Supreme Court ne kaha ki, unko media ke sath report karne par media ko nahi kaha ja sakta ki woh apne aap hi ko band kar

Original English: Asaram's lawyer said that Asaram was being made out to be a kind of Dracula in this case.
Translated Hindi: We want to show how Asaram and his foster son Narayan Sai have been made out to be villains. They have been portrayed as people who indulge in rape and murder, but they are not like that. We want to show that they are saints, avatars and saviours. We will also

Original English: In this case, the guidelines for reporting are in place but they are not being followed.
Translated Hindi: This shows that we have a problem in our system. We have to tackle this problem. For this, we have to follow the guidelines properly. 
Hindi: हमारे अनुसूचियों के निर्द

Original English: The Supreme Court said that there are several other options that could be used.
Translated Hindi: It also said that there is no urgency in the current matter. The Court said that the Centre should take the decision. It also pointed out that the matter is linked to the freedom of speech and expression. It said that the issue is highly complex and delicate.
Hindi: मानव

Original English: Asaram's lawyer said that there are thousands of newspapers and 100 news channels in the country, but specifically there were having problems with two channels.
Translated Hindi: He added that their complainant was a 15-year-old girl, who was a resident of Indore, and that she had gone to Asaram's ashram in Chhindwara to attend a religious programme. Asaram and his son were presented in court on Sunday, where they were rem

Original English: These people were damaging his image and are guilty of one-sided reporting.
Translated Hindi: They should be punished for the same.
Hindi: Yeh log uski image ko ghatate the aur doosre taraf se kahin bhi reporter ki halat kharab kar rahe the. Yeh unki vajah se kisi prakar se b

Original English: Asaram's rights should be protected in this case.
Translated Hindi: I am not aware of the details of the case but I think that he is a senior saint who was also a saint in the past. Further, he is also a spiritual leader and it is his responsibility to protect the rights of his followers.
Hindi: मुझे इस

Original English: The Court refused to stop the media from reporting, but told Asaram's lawyer that they have other legal options which they may make use of.
Translated Hindi: The media is not bound by the court injunction and can publish the news, said the Judge. In the meanwhile, Asaram's follower, Narayan Sai, who is accused of sexual exploitation by two women, has been sent to judicial custody till September 22.
Hindi: न्य

Original English: Pawan Bansal attcked by the opposition's questions on Rail Gate, shocked the opposition by saying that he had not so much as looked at a women in the past 15 years.
Translated Hindi: He said that he had not been interested in women for the past 15 years and that he had not been interested in women in the past 15 years. He said that he had not been interested in women for the past 15 years. He said that he had not been interested in women for

Original English: After this everyone one was stunned and wondered where the issue of a woman had come from.
Translated Hindi: I told them that, at that time when I was a child, my mother had come to my father’s home and after that she had not returned. I had also been told that my mother had committed suicide. Although I had not seen my mother, I knew that I was a woman. After

Original English: Maybe, Bansal was hinting at the family life of a Senior BJP leader and legislator.
Translated Hindi: His family is based in Delhi, but the leader lives in Mumbai, where he is employed.
Hindi: कभी कभी। बांसवाल शासकरी एक बड़े न

Original English: Then, changing the subject, Bansal told the reporters that in the last parliamentary elections the BJP had sent a women after him and conspired to lodge a complaint against him, but that they had failed.
Translated Hindi: Now, he said, they were trying to conspire against his son.
Hindi:
English:
English: Then, changing the subject, Bansal told the reporters that in the last parliamentary elections the BJP had sent a women after him and conspired to lodge a complaint against him, but that they

Original English: Addressing the reporters Bansal said that the CBI had interrogated him in the Rail Corruption case.
Translated Hindi: This is an open and shut case and I am not worried about it. I have faith in the judiciary and am not at all perturbed by the incident.
Hindi: बनसाल से यह बात दी गयी कि

Original English: If he has called as a witness then it must only have been after a complete investigation.
Translated Hindi: How can you allow a witness to be called for the first time in the appeal stage? The witness must have been examined in the trial court. A witness cannot be called when the trial court has closed its proceedings.
Hindi: Kya yah witness hua witness hai… iska koi

Original English: Bansal said that, in the booth in question, he had only delivered a letter for a needy person.
Translated Hindi: The Congress leader said that he did not carry any documents or other material related to the election campaign.
Hindi: बंसल कहा कि वहां पर अपने को परिवार के व्यक

Original English: If that is a crime, he would always commit the crime.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Yeh galat karnae ka koi vishesh roop nahi hae. Translation: There is no special crime involved here.
3. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: Shakal se nirdhaarit kisee bhalee ke

Original English: He said that it was not the corporation's constitutional right to raise the issue in the House, but he himself told the opposition to do so.
Translated Hindi: He said that he had raised it on behalf of the corporation. So it is not the right of the council or the house to take up the issue but he had done it on their behalf.
Hindi: Woh keh raha hai ki yeh corporation ka constitutional right nahin hai ke

Original English: He said that as far as the developmental activities were concerned the opposition would be provided with a list of all the developmental activities of the last 15 years.
Translated Hindi: The government had taken bold steps in the fields of agriculture, irrigation, education and employment.
Hindi: Wo bola ki ab tak 15 saal me mukhyamntri sarkaar ke karyon me inki madad ke liye list bana kar dena par.

Original English: In Chandigarh they cannot imagine the way in which the development is taking place or will take place.
Translated Hindi: The city is a highly planned city. It has the most modern architecture. There is no other city that is as well planned as this city. The roads are broad and the houses are so well spaced out that you don’t find a crowd anywhere. There is a lot of greenery in the city

Original English: Greetings were exchanged between the two in a cabinet meeting.
Translated Hindi: (दोनों की शुभकामनाएं दूसरों के साथ कांसेल में उन्होंने अच्छे स

Original English: After the meeting, Singh praised the Chief Minister for his speech in the meditation camp for the counter attack on Narendra Modi.
Translated Hindi: The Chief Minister said that the BJP’s decision to bring in Narendra Modi as the Prime Ministerial candidate is a mistake. Now the Congress has to make good use of this mistake and the allies of the UPA should also be involved in this campaign. The Chief Minister made these remarks while addressing the Congress

Original English: He also commented on his speech, saying that he didn't have any second thoughts in his mind.
Translated Hindi: He said that he has the full power to make the law and that he is quite confident that he will be able to do the job.
Hindi: उन्होंने उसा भाषण के बारे में

Original English: He wanted the party to become strong.
Translated Hindi: But he did not want to bring it into power. He believed that more power would turn the party into a private property of a few.
Hindi: वह यातायात को बढ़ाने के लिए प

Original English: New challenges will be faced strongly.
Translated Hindi: In the next few years, the world will be faced with strong challenges. It will be the responsibility of the world to take strong measures to be taken in the future. We have to face challenges like terrorism, poverty, hunger, unemployment, clean air and water. Only then will the world be able

Original English: The expression on the Chief Minister's face showed that he had taken Singh's speech in a positive way.
Translated Hindi: The Chief Minister, who was sitting on the dais, was looking towards Singh with expectation. He was eager to hear what Singh had to say.
Hindi: रीज़ान सिंह की बातचीत के ब

Original English: It should be noted that Singh had urged the Chief Minister to respect the activists in the meditation camp and to protect them from the alleged harassment by officials.
Translated Hindi: The Chief Minister assured him that he would ensure that the rights of the activists are protected even as he said that he had no personal grudge against the activists. The Chief Minister, however, expressed his displeasure over the way Singh and his supporters had conducted themselves in the past two days.
Hindi

Original English: However, he had also said that to assert his point he was also prepared for the dissolution of the cabinet.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Bas, woh bhi kaha tha, ki badalne ki liye, woh hamesha is baat par udaye ga, kisi bhi karyakarta ke aakraman ke liye, koi agya ya niti nahi

Original English: Though, after seeing the opinions arising from the meditation camp there was a chance that the case for putting activists into government posts will also be reconsidered.
Translated Hindi: As I will explain further, there is a very good reason for the opinions from the camp not to be ignored. For the five years of the camp, with a number of restrictions, people have been able to meditate in peace. I have not been able to go to the camp for the past

Original English: At the camp the state JDU president, Vashisht Narayan Singh, had said that the nominations of the activists in the 20-point committee would be announced soon.
Translated Hindi: The organisational elections would be held within three months.
Hindi: कार्यकर्ताओं के नोमिनेशन्स को दस दिन में घोषित कर

Original English: He also indicated that the list was almost ready.
Translated Hindi: His comments followed an announcement by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley that the government was close to finalising the names of those against whom action has been recommended under the new law.
Hindi: Wo bhi kaha tha ki unki list bahut hi jald ban jayegi.

Original English: Now the news is coming that Chief Minister, Nitish Kumar, will have a look at the list at his level.
Translated Hindi: But the fact is that the Nitish Kumar government is at the centre of the controversy. The government is
being accused of secularism in the
matter. The Nitish Kumar government has been accused of secularism in the matter. In the past the government of the state kept on writing letters to

Original English: He will also examine whether or not the opinion of the legislators and Members of Parliament was taken into account when generating the list.
Translated Hindi: He will also make recommendations as to how the list can be amended.
Hindi: Wo usse bhi yeh dekhenge ki Classic 91.1 FM, 92.3 FM, 94.5 FM, 95.3 FM aur 97.1 FM ka k

Original English: If need be the list will be revised on a large scale to give places to older and more committed activists.
Translated Hindi: Remember, we are building a base for a political movement. The list is not for one year or for a year and a half. It is for three years, it is for five years. It is to prepare ourselves for a long struggle. The names on the list should be of persons who are

Original English: The common complaint of the legislators and Members of Parliament is that their opinion was not considered while generating the list.
Translated Hindi: The age old practice of the government to decide the list of candidates is not acceptable and there is a need to make the process of selection of candidates more transparent. The government should not decide the list of candidates and the members of the political parties should be free to choose the candidates of their choice.
H

Original English: Most of the people who have come from other parties are on the list but a significant number of workers, active since the Samata Party period, have been left off.
Translated Hindi: The list is a mix of old and new faces.
Hindi: हालांकि यहाँ पर कई पार्टियों से आये लोग आवंटी

Original English: Some people are born with a silver spoon in their mouths, while others create a perfect life by their hard work and people take inspiration from them.
Translated Hindi: In case the skin colour is a matter of concern for you then there are many ways to maintain it. Skin is the most precious asset of a human being. Under no circumstances, it is acceptable that the skin of your face or body is getting affected due to pollution, dust, and sun rays.

Original English: One of the such personalities is the late Dhirubhai Ambani.
Translated Hindi: He is the father of the Indian business tycoon Mukesh Ambani. He was the chief of Reliance Industries Ltd. and the richest person in India. He was born in a poor family. He was very poor in studies. But he had a very strong ambition. He was a very hard

Original English: The third son of Hirachand Govaradhandas Ambani, who worked as a teacher in a school in Coravada, a small village in Gujarat, Dhirubhai Ambani was born on December 28th, 1932.
Translated Hindi: One day he went to a market with his father where he saw a man selling saffron. Dhirubhai asked the man if he were to buy saffron, how much would he sell it for? The man told him that he would sell it for 100 rupees per kg

Original English: Dhirubhai was the third of five brothers and sisters.
Translated Hindi: He had an elder brother named Champaklal and three younger brothers and sisters - Ashok, Chimanbhai and Vasantaben. He was born in a small village in Gujarat.
Hindi: चंपकलाल और उनके द

Original English: The five children were Ramanikalala, Natwar Lal, Dhirubhai and two sisters, Trilochana and Jasumati.
Translated Hindi: They were known as ‘Kitty’ and ‘Bunny’.
Hindi: इन 5 बच्चों ने रमानिकलाला, नत्वर लाल, धीर

Original English: Due to financial constraints Dhirubhai had to drop out after high school.
Translated Hindi: He had no choice but to work as a clerk in the Bombay cotton exchange. He often used to day dream about how he could become a successful businessman. He used to read all the business magazines and noted down all the business ideas he read about. His hard work paid him well and he started his

Original English: Dhirubhai started helping in the house financially from childhood.
Translated Hindi: Later his father, Dhariaram, started a small grocery store, and Dhirubhai began to help in it. When he was 16, he began to work in a textile mill.
Hindi: दीरुभाई का घर में

Original English: At that time he set up a stall selling Bhajiyas near Girnar. The income from the stall was dependent on the number of tourists going there.
Translated Hindi: He had to wait for hours together and had to sell his Bhajiyas at a lower price in order to sell them at all. But gradually the number of tourists increased and as a result his income also increased.
Hindi: तब वह जाने

Original English: Dhirubhai's first job was in 1949 at the age of 17 when he arrived on a ship called Cabota in the city of Aden, in the Yemen.
Translated Hindi: He worked for six months as a petrol pump attendant at the Esso Service Station. He was paid a salary of Rs. 49 per month. He was very good at his work and his boss was very happy with him. His boss spoke to him about the future, and he told Dhir

Original English: His elder brother, Raniklala, had made all the arrangements for him there, so he did not have any problem getting a job abroad.
Translated Hindi: He first got a job in Dubai and later on in Abu Dhabi. It was his first job and it was very difficult to adjust in a new environment. His family was very supportive, his wife helped him in every way. He worked very hard. After working for two years in Dubai, he came

Original English: But Dhirubhai had something else in mind.
Translated Hindi: He wanted to create a new kind of company— one that could grow as big as anyone could imagine, and succeed on a global scale. He bet on himself, and he won.
Hindi: Par Dhirubhai ko yehi kuch aur hi chahiye tha. Ek n

Original English: So he returned home in 1954.
Translated Hindi: He had the good fortune of meeting a great yogi named Swami Rama, who was in town giving satsang or spiritual discourse. Rama was the first to reveal to him the secrets of the Vedas and the Upanishads. He also gave him a mantra to chant and

Original English: By 1955, he had landed in Mumbai with Rs 500 in his pocket, to try his luck.
Translated Hindi: He was promised a job at Rs 50 a month, but his employer never showed up. He tried to sell watches, but they were stolen. Finally, he decided to go to a tailor and ask for a job. The tailor told him he could not pay him, but would give him one

Original English: And from here he started his travel business.
Translated Hindi: He named it "Deccan Odyssey".
Hindi: और इस पार के आगे वह टैवल बिज़नेस की शुरूआत की.

Original English: Dhirubhai never looked back.
Translated Hindi: He began to source the entire ingredients to make the final product. He bought the entire plant and machinery from the US and installed it in his plant in the village of Mundra.
Hindi: धीरुभाई न जबादी न

Original English: His name became known not only in the country, but also abroad.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उनके नाम देश के बारे में नहीं बल्कि दुनिया के बारे में भी प्र

Original English: Dhirubhai Ambani bade farewell to the world on July 6th, 2002.
Translated Hindi: Fondly remembered by his family and friends, he will be forever in our hearts.
Hindi: डी. डॉयलभाई अमबानी जन्मको ५जुन,

Original English: When he died he had Rs 62,000 crores.
Translated Hindi: After his death, his son was Rs 62,000 crores. Now, his son’s son is Rs 62,000 crores. If his son’s son had Rs 62,000 crores, what will his son’s son’s son have? Hindi: Jab wo mar gay

Original English: Currently his sons, Mukesh Ambani and Anil Ambani, are looking after his empire.
Translated Hindi: But they are not on good terms and this has been a major cause of concern for the family and the public.
Hindi: इसके बेटे, मुकेश अंबानी और अनिल अ

Original English: Like their father, today these two brothers are at the international level of businessmen.
Translated Hindi: They have their own offices in America, England, France, Italy and Japan. Even in the age of 50, Arnab and Ayan are not at all tired of working and earning. They are not only taking care of their business, but also looking after the family business.
Hindi:

Original English: Who has not heard of the Ambani family today?
Translated Hindi: They have made India proud by acquiring the world’s largest oil refinery in the US. This will be the 4th generation of the Ambani family to take the company forward.
Hindi: 1. आज एकमात्र कोई न ह

Original English: Dhirubhai, Kokilaben, their two sons, Mukesh and Anil Ambani, and their wives Nita Ambani and Tina Ambani.
Translated Hindi: Dhirubhai, Kokilaben, their two sons, Mukesh and Anil Ambani, and their wives Nita Ambani and Tina Ambani.
The following Hindi text needs to be translated and translated text should be written below Hindi text in English font: Hindi: दीर

Original English: Pamela Anderson chops off those iconic blonde locks, debuts dramatic new pixie cut.
Translated Hindi: As an actress, she has appeared on TV, in movies, and on stage, as well as modeling and working as a spokeswoman for PETA. She is known for her role as C.J.
Parker on the television series Baywatch. She rose to fame in the 1990s with

Original English: Pam's blonde locks were made famous by her role in sexy TV show Baywatch.
Translated Hindi: But Pamela Anderson's hair is a lot darker in real life, and a few shades lighter than her usual blonde hue. The actress, who is currently starring in comedy-drama series Stacked, has dyed her hair to a rich chocolate brown.
Hindi: पैम ने

Original English: Pamela Anderson is the latest celebrity to shock fans with a dramatic new hairdo.
Translated Hindi: The Baywatch babe, famous for her blonde locks, shocked fans by swapping her signature blonde locks for red tresses. The 50-year-old actress, made headlines across the world when she posted a photograph of herself with red curls on Twitter earlier this week. She captioned the picture: “I

Original English: The ex-Baywatch babe has ditched her long blonde locks in favour of a platinum pixie crop.
Translated Hindi: The 45-year-old actress, who is currently appearing in this year's Strictly Come Dancing, has left her long locks behind her to undergo a drastic makeover. Posting a picture of the new look on her Twitter page, the 45-year-old wrote: 'New me. What do you think

Original English: The 46-year-old actress revealed her latest look while out and about in LA on Wednesday and shared a snap on her Twitter page.
Translated Hindi: She wrote: 'New do, who dis?' The beauty also posted a second snap which showed off the length of her hair. Her fans were quick to share their thoughts on her new look with one person writing: 'New hair! You look great.' Another person commented: 'Your hair looks really

Original English: It's the first time in 20 years that the blonde beauty has had short hair, and we're loving the demure change.
Translated Hindi: "It's a bit of a bummer cuz I'm blonde and it's my signature look," she said in an interview with E! News, "but I'm having fun with it. I feel younger, more free, more like myself than I ever have. I feel cool and edgy

Original English: What do you think about Pammy's hair?
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Kya aap Pammy Ke baal ke bare mein kuch soch rahe hain?
STEP 2: Download the following images and paste them into the exercise sheet. Write what these images tell you about the topic of the exercise. (Eg: What do you think

Original English: Share with us your thoughts in the comments below.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इसे नीचे कमेंट में समझाइए.
Place the cursor at the end of the line and type your translation (as shown below).
English: Share with us your thoughts in the comments below.

Original English: The sacrifice of Shaheed Kesari was remembered and a cultural program, including patriotic presentations, was performed.
Translated Hindi: The Chief Guest of the event was the Chairman of the Municipality, Dr. Sobha Singh Ji. Dr. Sobha Singh Ji said that Shaheed Kesari Singhs fight for the country was very heroic. He had not only sacrificed his life for the country, but also his family. His

Original English: The program was organised on Friday at Gandhi park on behalf of the committee.
Translated Hindi: A procession was also taken out. The procession was taken out from Gokul Market and ended at Gandhi Park.
Hindi: य वयस्क य दनक एक आयन गठन क नकस

Original English: Here Mayor Vinod Chamoli, with the office bearers of the committee, laid a wreath at the statue of the Shaheed Kesari Chand.
Translated Hindi: The statue was unveiled on the occasion of the 100th birth anniversary of Shaheed Kesari Chand.
Hindi: यहाँ मयौर विनोद चमोली, उसके अधिक

Original English: After that a cultural program was organised at the Hindi Bhavan, where the former SP state President Vinod Badthwal was present. Principal guest and former legislator Munna Singh Chauhan was also present as a special guest.
Translated Hindi: The Hindi Bhavan was decorated with colorful balloons and lights.
Hindi: जब तक भारतीय विश्वविद्यालय भावन का विश्ल

Original English: In this program Sukh Kala Manch, Jaunsaar presented 'Kesari teri yaad mein kashi bhulauni, Jiyendei teri yaddon bira kashi mitauni', 'Veer kesari chand ji ki harut', Jaunsaar ke aradhya dev mahasu devata ki vandana; etc. Cultural programs were presented.
Translated Hindi: These programs were directed by Rakesh Maram. The program was sponsored by Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi.
Hindi: यह यंत्र शिव कला मंच, जौंसार क

Original English: The principle guest, shedding light on the life of the Veer Shaheed Kesari Chand, made everyone aware of the contribution he had made to the freedom struggle.
Translated Hindi: His sacrifices for the freedom of the country are glorious and are well recognised. In addition, the guests also talked about the enormous contributions made by the likes of Bhai Maharaj Singh, Bhai Sahib Ajit Singh, Bhai Tara Singh, Bhai Jang Singh and Bhai Madan

Original English: The speakers urged those present in the program to become strong-willed and patriotic, like Shaheed Kesari.
Translated Hindi: They exhorted the students to take inspiration from the life of Kesari and take a firm resolve to eschew all kinds of social evils, like drugs and alcohol, and cultivate the good habits of hard work, honesty and integrity.
Hindi: Yajaman ne jab kaha ki yahan

Original English: The Chairman of the Committee Jayavir Singh Chauhan, Matbar Singh Chauhan, Suresh Tomar, Ravindra Bhandari, Amit Joshi, Mijaan Rai, Sunil Dutt Sharma were present at the event.
Translated Hindi: The Vice-Chairman Bhanwar Singh Chauhan, Pratap Singh Chauhan, Dr. Rameshwar Sharma, Rameshwar Sharma, Rakesh Chauhan, Suresh Tomar, Ravindra Bhandari, Amit Joshi, M

Original English: Killing mosquitoes to prevent diseases like dengue, malaria and filariasis is going to be expensive.
Translated Hindi: For example, the cost of sugar needed for 1000 moquito traps is Rs. 6.5 lakhs.
Hindi:
ब्रतों को मुज़्त दूर करने और डेंग

Original English: The state government is proceeding to raise the tax on mosquito killing repellents, mats and liquids by up to three times.
Translated Hindi: This is in line with the state's plan to achieve a revenue target of Rs 1,46,000 crore for the current financial year. The tax on mosquito repellents is being raised from 5 per cent to 12 per cent. This is in keeping with the tax on soaps and

Original English: The proposal to increase tax will be presented to the cabinet soon.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: शिकायत दरो दरो न बढ़ाने वाले शिकायत को गृह मंत्रालयों में

Original English: The government is struggling with a financial crisis these days and is searching for ways to do everything possible to increase revenue.
Translated Hindi: The easiest way to do this would be to increase taxes on the rich.
Hindi: भारतीय सरकार आज अधिकतर दायरे के सरकार एक स

Original English: It is noteworthy that, to improve the financial health of the government, a resource committee has been formed under the chairmanship of Urban Development Minister, Mohamed Azam Khan.
Translated Hindi: The committee will have a recommendation to crack down on tax evaders. It would also prepare a blueprint for the collection of tax from the dead, and from those who have gone abroad. The committee will submit its recommendations to the government in two months.
Hindi: यह उत

Original English: According to sources, in a recently held resource committee meeting many proposals to increase the tax were rejected if the general public would be directly affected.
Translated Hindi: The government is thinking on the lines of increasing the tax on high-end vehicles. An official at the source also said that the government is ready to bear the loss if the tax is increased.
Hindi: तर्जमान राज्य अध

Original English: However, the committee has given the green flag to increase the taxes on mosquito repellents, coils, mats and liquids.
Translated Hindi: The tax rates on these products are proposed to be increased from 12.5 per cent to 18 per cent, and from 22 per cent to 24 per cent. Since these are mainly used by the middle and lower classes, the committee has supported the proposal for a balanced tax rate hike

Original English: A proposal to triple the taxes has been put forward.
Translated Hindi: The government has submitted a proposal to increase the taxes.
Hindi: कार्यालय से कई विवरण दिए हैं। कार्यालय द्वार

Original English: Currently they carry 4% VAT plus an additional 1% tax.
Translated Hindi: So, 4% and 1% both have to be paid. From the 1st of July, the VAT will be 14% and the additional tax will be reduced to 0.5%. We will all have to pay the VAT and the 0.5% additional tax

Original English: Now a 12.5% VAT plus a 1.5% additional tax on these items is proposed.
Translated Hindi: It is estimated that this will bring in an additional Rs. 1,500 crore.
Hindi: Ab aaj tak ke naye saal me 12.5% VAT plus 1.5% additional tax ka avsar diye gaye hai. Yeh lagbhag

Original English: The government is likely to generate additional revenue of around Rs 14 crore in this way.
Translated Hindi: There is a 1.2 per cent excise duty on man-made fibre and Rs 14,000 per tonne duty on cotton.
Hindi: सरकार राज्य रिजल्युट के लिए

Original English: A proposal for a tax hike on the persimmon leaf was rejected: In fact, to increase the revenue income the commercial tax department was in favour of increasing the tax on the persimmon leaf by 14%, but the Financial Resources Committee has rejected that proposal.
Translated Hindi: The tax department has now begun to look for an alternative tax collection proposal.
Hindi: मख क न दरवज ल ब क ल ग क श र क ब द न च द ह प र

Original English: The committee believes that persimmon leaf is used to make bidis that the lower-class people smoke.
Translated Hindi: The committee also believes that the leaves are more harmful than cigarettes.
Hindi: आरोग्य निर्माण संस्था ने अपने सबूतों पर निष

Original English: Similarly, the committee rejected the proposal to increase taxes on transmission wires, etc., and electrical goods that would have pushed up the cost of electricity and would have a direct impact on the general public.
Translated Hindi: The proposal to increase electricity duty on electricity above 10 kVA has also been rejected.

Original English: The committee also rejected the proposal for the application of a green tax on the renewal of commercial vehicles.
Translated Hindi: Vehicles are the main cause of air pollution, so the green tax is a good solution to the problem. However, the committee argued that the green tax is unfair to the transport industry. The transport industry is already suffering from the economic downturn. The transport industry is already in a tough situation, so it

Original English: On Friday Congress leader Chadvir Hooda gave a speech to the inhabitants of Sector 2 and Maheshpur village
Translated Hindi: , which is 15 km from the municipal limits of the city of Jhajjar. He said that today he has come to the city with the aim of connecting with the people of the city. The people of Jhajjar city are one of the most hardworking people in the country

Original English: During this speech he invited the people to join the rally and determined who was responsible for what.
Translated Hindi: This was the only way to rule the country properly.
Hindi: Ye speach me woh logon ko rally ke liye invite kiya aur woh log jo kiya tha unko samajhaya. Iske alava desh ko thik tarike se aage

Original English: Chadvir also determined the duties of the activists.
Translated Hindi: He said, “As you know, we are now in the second phase of the movement. This time the movement is not restricted to Punjab. Even outside Punjab, in the cities, agitation is going on. We have to ensure that this time there is no gap between the various units of the movement

Original English: Chadvir Hooda said that the Haryana Chief Minister, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, has spent billions of rupees in the district.
Translated Hindi: But the people of the district are not getting anything in return.
Hindi: Chadvir Hooda ne kaha ki Haryana Chief Minister, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, ne dilli ki bhoomi ke liye billions of rupees hai. Lekin dilli ke bh

Original English: In the last four years Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has completed development work worth Rs 15 crore in Barwala and has blocked panchayats.
Translated Hindi: The former Panchkula MP has turned a blind eye to people living in the area. The opposition parties are also not raising any objections to the acts of Hooda.
The chief minister has sanctioned Rs 1.5 lakh for the construction of a toilet in the house of a poor person in

Original English: Chadvir Hooda said that because of the appeal of the Chief Minister activists are very excited about this rally and this rally will be the biggest amongst all the rallies so far and this will put Haryana politics on the map in the entire country.
Translated Hindi: The rally was attended by senior leaders like Satpal Singh Satti, Karan Singh Dalal and others.
Hindi: Chadvir Hooda ने कहा कि मुख्यमंत्री के Appeal के माध्यम

Original English: Chadvir said that, based on the popularity gained by the Chief Minister  by the way of landmark decisions and for activities for the people's welfare, the public would also elect Hooda for the third time.
Translated Hindi: The Chief Minister has succeeded in bringing the image of Haryana among the people of the country and the world, Chadvir said.
Hindi: चवदीर ने कहा कि, मुख्यमंत्री की

Original English: Diwali, the festival of wealth, happiness and prosperity begins on Friday with Dhanteras.
Translated Hindi: It’s a five-day festival and is celebrated with great zeal and enthusiasm all over India. The festival of Diwali mainly signifies the victory of good over evil, light over darkness and knowledge over ignorance.
Hindi: Diwali, Shubhankar ke, Sneh aur dhan

Original English: Preparations at home and in the markets have reached the final stage.
Translated Hindi: People are out to buy everything, from flowers to sweets, from garlands to lights, from new clothes to utensils. All these are symbols of the New Year. The New Year comes once a year. We must prepare ourselves to celebrate it with great joy. We must not be lazy and be

Original English: To double the enjoyment of the city's inhabitants the main market Bapu Market, Ashwini Market, Sarafa Market, Badbhuja Valley, Sindhi Market, etc. have put up extensive decorations.
Translated Hindi: The streets are decorated with colorful lights and flower garlands. All the shops and houses are decorated with colorful lights and flower garlands. The shops are decorated with colorful lights and flower garlands. The residents of all colonies are busy in decorating their houses and shops. On the evening of December 20

Original English: Shopkeepers have made special preparations in their shops for the convenience of their customers.
Translated Hindi: The storekeepers have put colourful decorations on their shops. They have also displayed their products in attractive ways. They have made their shops look attractive and colourful. They want to attract the customers by putting colourful decorations. They want to make the customers happy.
Hindi: शरणकर

Original English: The festive atmosphere has resulted in large crowds in the major markets several times during the day.
Translated Hindi: The shops are overflowing with people in search of the right gift. Large crowds also move in search of the right restaurant to eat out.
Hindi: बधाई जब और लगती है, वह सदी

Original English: There is a competition amongst the merchant unions for the best decorations during Diwali.
Translated Hindi: The merchants close the stores for 3-4 days and give their employees a holiday. The stores are cleaned and decorated and families have a good time with cleaning and decorating the house. The shops are open till the 4th day of Diwali and then they all close and enjoy the holiday

Original English: The main markets sectors 4, 5, 6 and sector 14 of the suburban areas have been decorated.
Translated Hindi: We have installed 50,000 lights for the decoration. Many people have come here to see the decoration.
Hindi: ताजगी एक्सचेंज प्रबंधन समूह के त

Original English: Shopping continued in these markets on the eve of Dhanteras too.
Translated Hindi: But the shopkeepers have little hope of doing good business on the last day of the five-day festival. With the first day of the Deepawali today, the sale of candles, earthen diyas, fire crackers, and puja items has picked up.
Hindi: द न

Original English: Sales of materials related to worship, lamps and lighting etc. were especially strong on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: धार्मिक ध्वातार, दिव्य ज्योति, और बग़ैर आयात से प्रसिद्ध

Original English: Jagaran Bureau, Shrinagar: The police have allegedly removed the security of the former Minister Ghulam Hasan Khan who joined Congress from the People Democratic Party.
Translated Hindi: The sources said that the security was removed after the former minister joined Congress. They said that the former minister joined Congress in August last and there was no need of any security cover and by removing the security cover the police had conveyed a message that the former minister no longer remained threat to the law and order

Original English: Khan blamed the government, saying that his security has been removed for political reasons.
Translated Hindi: This is not a matter of my security, but of the country's security. I want to know what the government's plans are for the country's security.” Hindi: खान पर राजनीति वर्षा जा रह

Original English: It may be recalled that in the year 2002 Ghulam Hasan Khan, who won the 2002 elections from Shopian on a PDP ticket, was included in the cabinet, while Mufti Mohamed Sayeed was a Chief Minister.
Translated Hindi: Later, Mufti Sayeed
became the Chief Minister on two occasions, while Ghulam Hasan Khan was not included in the cabinet.
Hindi: यह भी याद रखना चाहिए की यह

Original English: Ghulam Hassan Khan said he has had protection since 1996.
Translated Hindi: He claimed that he was not tortured and that his family were still living in their home in Pakistan. He said that he was arrested by the Pakistani police in 1996. He was detained in a prison in Rawalpindi for two months and then transferred to Pindi jail. He said that

Original English: I live in Shopian, which is believed to be a stronghold of terrorists.
Translated Hindi: I live with my parents and four sisters. The recent uptick in terrorist violence in the area has been particularly troubling for us. The terror attacks have killed many innocent people, including women and children.  The attacks have also caused us to be separated from our loved ones. My father has been in

Original English: A CRPF security team under the leadership of a sub-inspector is stationed at my house.
Translated Hindi: A female constable is posted at the gate. When the female constable sees me, she relays the information to the sub-inspector, who then calls me on my mobile and tells me that a CRPF team has been posted at my house. The sub-inspector also speaks to my wife

Original English: I have also bodyguards, but all my security was suddenly withdrawn on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: I have appealed to the state government and to the central government not to take any action against me in the interest of the nation. I have also appealed to all political parties to withdraw the privilege motion against me. I have also appealed to all political parties to withdraw the privilege motion against me. India is

Original English: As when the security team was leaving from my house I spoke to the District Deputy Commissioner and District Superintendent.
Translated Hindi: They were happy and proud of the fact that on their first visit, they were able to complete the first phase of the security exercise.
Hindi: मेरे घर से सुरक्षा टीम उसकी एक आ

Original English: But instead of restoring security they just said that they would investigate the matter.
Translated Hindi: The government did not take any steps to take action against the criminals. The government did not provide any security to the victims. The government did not do anything to protect the victims. The government did not take any action to arrest the criminal. The government did not try to rescue the victims. The government

Original English: However, in this regard, when the Kashmir IGP, Abdul Gani Meer, was contacted he denied any knowledge of the issue and said that it was a sensitive issue.
Translated Hindi: The police force of the Jammu and Kashmir State is used as a tool of oppression in order to quell the resistance of the people.
Hindi: इस लण्डन के लड्ड में, कश्मीर

Original English: I should check it out myself. After all, how can the protection of a former minister and senior political leader be removed?
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मैं दुसरी बात देख लूँ. और उनका चयन रहेगा तो उनका बढ़

Original English: The State Congress Chief, Prof. Safudin Soz, said that as far as he knew  nothing of this kind had ever happened before.
Translated Hindi: He said  the Congress Party was not involved in this type of act.  He said the Party was opposed to such type of activity.  He said  the Party is secular and is not involved in any type of religious activity.  He said  that the Party has been doing such type

Original English: If Hasan Khan's security has been compromised, then it is a very serious matter.
Translated Hindi: Because the security of a cricketer is not only the responsibility of the Pakistan Cricket Board, but also the responsibility of all the players and the team. If this is true, then we will take it very seriously.
Hindi: हसान कहान की सुर

Original English: I am in Jammu now and will be coming to Kashmir in a day or two.
Translated Hindi: I will be coming to meet you at your house. Please arrange for my stay at your house.
Hindi: Main abhi Jammu mein hoon aur aaj ya kal Kashmir ja raha hoon. Tumhare ghar mein aane ke liye tum mujhe ghar mein

Original English: I will discuss this issue with the authorities concerned.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मुझे इस शिक्षा समस्या के बारे में विभागों के संबंध में तालाब

Original English: According to the report, the UPA government has spent Rs 8.5 crore to advertise the anniversary of the birth of Sardar Patel over the last four years.
Translated Hindi: The highest amount spent was in 2012, when Rs 3.7 crore was spent on advertisements. In 2013, Rs 2.4 crore was spent, Rs 1.2 crore in 2014 and Rs 1.2 crore in 2015.
Hindi

Original English: But, contrary to the claims by Modi during the NDA government (between 1994 and 2004), while Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the PM there was a time for 2 consecutive years (2001-2002) when not a single advertisement for Sardar Patel was published by the Government.
Translated Hindi: In fact, this was the period when the Government of India was compelled to apologise to the Pakistani Government for a letter sent by the Home Minister to the Pakistani Government for the release of their prisoners (of war). Now, after Modi is the PM, we find that the Government is relentlessly working to make

Original English: On Thursday in Kevadia,Gujarat laying the foundation stone of Sardar Patel's 182 meter high statue, 'the Statue of Unity', Modi said, "Earlier, there was no advertising for the anniversary of Sardar Patel.
Translated Hindi: The entire media was running around and asking, what is the date of Sardar Patel's birthday? Is it on 31st October or 31st October? The government had to say 31st October. The Indian media has a very short memory. We cannot forget that the foreign media

Original English: While the DAVP's records show that in 2009-10 up to 3 million, in 2010-11 to Rs 4.10 crore, in 2011-12 and Rs 2.7 crore and in 2012-13 to Rs 1.4 crore UPA had been spent on advertising for Sardar Patel.
Translated Hindi: In 2013-14 the former Prime Minister's son told the house that the government had spent Rs 4,91 crore on advertising. In 2014-15 Raje said the government had spent Rs 3,29 crore while in 2015-16 the NDA government had

Original English: When the Union Information and Broadcasting Minister, Manish Tewari, was asked about Modi's claims he said that what the BJP's PM candidate said was not based on the facts.
Translated Hindi: He said that the government could not be blamed for the poor economic growth. He said that the inflation rate would go down once the new government takes over.
Hindi: देश भर मे आतंकवाद के प्रभव

Original English: In 2008 the UPA did not publish any ads in the name of Patel.
Translated Hindi: Patel is a very dear person to me. In 2008 I had not come to the BJP, now I am a BJP leader. The people of Gujarat have been cheated. The people of Gujarat will not forgive the BJP. They have made people fool for 22 years. The people of Gujarat

Original English: Tiwari said that it was because of the economic downturn in that year.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: टवारी ने बताया कि इस समय आर्थिक कठोरता के कारण था।
1. Translate the following text

Original English: The amounts spent on promoting Sardar Patel are far less than the amount spent on the birth and death anniversaries of the Nehru - Gandhi family members.
Translated Hindi: The amount spent on the life history of Sardar Patel is very low in comparison to the money spent on the life history of Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi.
Hindi: Sardar Patel ke liye promotion ke prarambh me pah

Original English: DAVP has spent 33 crores on the birth and death anniversaries, 21 crores for former PM Rajiv Gandhi, 14.5 crores for Indira Gandhi and Rs.9.38 crores for Jawaharlal Nehru, on print advertising.
Translated Hindi: The agency spent Rs 1.6 crores to publish the book 'The story of the creation of JNU' by the publisher The National Book Trust. For the former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the DAVP spent Rs 10 lakhs.
Hindi

Original English: When Manish Tiwari was asked about the difference, he said, "it should not be seen from the perspective of spending on advertising.
Translated Hindi: It is not about how much money you spend on advertising but how much you spend on making the product better. If you spend money to make the product better, it will not be visible. But if you spend money on advertising, the product will be seen." 
Hindi: 
अ

Original English: Because the price of advertising depends on several things, such as the size or frequency of the advertisement for that year.
Translated Hindi: The price of advertising is also determined by the status of the company and the reputation of the company. This is because the company's reputation can affect the company's sales transactions.
Hindi: तथापि जिस दशा में व

Original English: The fact is that it shows our dedication without understanding that the people opposed to this are busy taking care of the legacy of a great leader.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यह जानकारी है कि यह शक्ति दिखाने से पहले हम आधारित हैं। लेक

Original English: Today he will meet the families of the people who died in Patna last Sunday.
Translated Hindi: He will also visit the flood affected areas of the state. He will also meet the victims of the stampede in Patna’s Gandhi Maidan. This stampede had occurred during the rally of the BJP leader Narendra Modi.
Hindi: इस दिन, वह

Original English: As it is Narendra Modi's second visit to Patna just a week after the blasts the security has been tightened.
Translated Hindi: Modi's visit was announced on 13th of this month, the day of the blasts.
Hindi: यह नरेंद्र मोदी ने पटना आया प्रथम टह

Original English: The police have examined the route of Modi's visit and the sites of the meeting thoroughly.
Translated Hindi: The preparations are at an advanced stage. Modi's motorcade will pass through the narrowest lane of the city. The meeting is being held at the largest open stadium of the city. The BJP has also arranged for a large number of people to be in the audience. An estimated 4.5

Original English: Police will keep an eye on the people coming to the meetings.
Translated Hindi: They will not allow any outsiders to come in.
Hindi: [Translation: Police ko meetings me ane ke liye logon ko dekhna hoga. Kisi bhi aane ke liye outsiders ko door kar diya jayega.
14. Translate the following English text

Original English: The Gujarat police force, the NSGIB and the State police force will take care of security.
Translated Hindi: The police will be given adequate training, and the necessary equipment and weapons will be given.
Hindi: गुजरात पुलिस बल, भारतीय अपनी कांग्रेस

Original English: Modi's protective shield will be tightened.
Translated Hindi: The members of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs are said to be fully aware of the dangers of the Chinese cyber warfare against India. "India has been hit by cyber-attacks several times. This is not a small matter and it is not a matter of the past few years only. It has been

Original English: Meanwhile, questions are being raised about the urn procession undertaken by the BJP, carrying the ashes of the people who died in the blasts.
Translated Hindi: The BJP has been accusing the government of not properly managing the cremation and funeral ceremonies of the victims, and said that the government’s failure to do so was one of the reasons that caused the people to take the law in their own hands. The BJP has demanded a probe into the cremation and

Original English: Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has accused the BJP of spoiling the atmosphere.
Translated Hindi: He has said that the BJP is trying to create an atmosphere of fear. To know more, watch this video.
Hindi: Nitish Kumar Jee kahte hain ki BJP ne vikaas ke liye, raajneeti ki saath aisi vikaas nirdesh

Original English: Trekking through mud, rivers and jungle to provide free medical care
Translated Hindi: for the sick and injured in remote areas. The 1000 such volunteers are part of the Indian Army's "Operation Sadbhavana". Located in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, the operation is an effort to bring the Indian government to the people.
Hindi: दीर

Original English: Dr. Georges Bwelle is bringing free health care to rural villages in Cameroon
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: डॉ गेर्ज़ बेव ल ने चमाल बूढा निकायों के लिए ग्राहकों क

Original English: Bwelle and his team spend almost every weekend seeing hundreds of patients
Translated Hindi: in the community. The clinic often runs out of medicines. Every month they have to trek to the nearest pharmacy in Sanawar to get medicines for their patients. They have to spend a night in Sanawar in order to attend to their clinic the next day.
Hindi: Bwelle

Original English: There aren't many doctors in the west African country; just one for every 5,000 people
Translated Hindi: . The result of this is that children can die from illnesses that are easily preventable in wealthier countries.
Hindi: There aren't many doctors in the west African country; just one for every 5,000 people. The result of this is that children can die from illnesses that are easily

Original English: Cast your vote here or through your mobile device
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: आने वाले वोट करें या अपने मोबाइल डिवाइस से.

English: You can vote here or through your mobile device.
H

Original English: Dr. Georges Bwelle is one of the top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013.
Translated Hindi: He is a doctor from Cameroon who is helping to save the lives of mothers and newborns in his country. Dr. Bwelle has helped 5,000 mothers and saved 1,000 newborns. His hospital is one of the first in Africa to have an intensive care unit for newborn

Original English: You can vote for him, or any of the other top 10 Heroes, to be CNN Hero of the Year.
Translated Hindi: Just like last year, the Hero who receives the most votes will be honored at the annual CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute.
Hindi: Aap usse vote kar sakte hain, ya kisi bhi top 10 Heroes se, to be CNN Heroes of the Year. Ab

Original English: That person will receive $250,000 to continue their extraordinary work.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इसे पर उपमान्य कार्य को निभाना पाएगा।
Read the following text:
1) Dinah: I don’t want to go to the shopping mall anymore

Original English: For 21 years, Georges Bwelle watched his ill father slip in and out of consciousness, traveling to hospitals that weren't equipped to help him.
Translated Hindi: "There was no medicine," Bwelle, 23, says. "My father barely had a bed."
Hindi: बारातीरवार 21 वर्ष की उदय से अपने

Original English: Jamef Bwelle was injured in a 1981 car accident near Yaounde, Cameroon's capital.
Translated Hindi: He was unable to move his legs. Doctors recommended amputation of the lower portion of his body. Jamef agreed. He was eventually fitted with a prosthetic leg. Jamef was unable to walk. He was not able to work. Jamef married a woman named Marie-Eve. She helped

Original English: He suffered only a broken arm at first, but an infection developed and spread to his brain, creating a hematoma that would affect him for the rest of his life.
Translated Hindi: His brain was not damaged, but he could not move his left arm or leg. He was in a coma for five weeks or so. He was still unconscious when he arrived at the hospital, so he was not able to tell them anything about the attack. The doctors had to put him on a

Original English: "There were no neurosurgeons in Cameroon," Georges Bwelle said.
Translated Hindi: "There were only general practitioners who treated people with brain tumors with amphetamines." The first neurosurgeon in Cameroon studied in Paris and returned to his country. Georges Bwelle, one of the children of the first neurosurgeon, brought a neurosurgeon to Cameroon in

Original English: We would have taken him out of Cameroon if we had the money.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Humne woh apne bharat se nikalna chahte the, agar hum apni sahayata ke liye paisa nahin rakhte. 

Please note: In the Hindi translation, we have used conditional tense which is not very common in Hindi.

Original English: Instead, Bwelle spent years escorting his father to overcrowded clinics and hospitals, getting whatever treatment they could get.
Translated Hindi: The experience left Bwelle and his father feeling helpless and hopeless. It was a black day for Bwelle, who shed tears as he had done on many occasions in the past.
Hindi: par pahale hi aapne ICC chuna hai,aur aapne ICC ch

Original English: "It's not easy," Bwelle said.
Translated Hindi: "It's difficult to do, but for me it's a challenge. I don’t know the time when I will be able to speak French fluently, but I will continue to learn French because I want to be a good person in French society. I don’t want to speak in English to

Original English: You can leave home at 5 a.m., running to the hospital to be the first, and you are not the first.
Translated Hindi: You can leave home at 5 a.m., running to the hospital to be the first, and you are not the first. You can leave home at 5 a.m., running to the hospital to be the first, and you are not the first.
Hindi: आप 5

Original English: There are a lot of patients.
Translated Hindi: (2x)
Hindi: उम्मीद है की उनके परिजनों उनकी सहायता करेंगे.
 Translate the following text from English to

Original English: Some people can die because they are waiting.
Translated Hindi: When you donate blood, you can save the life of someone who needs it. Your blood must be clean and healthy.
Hindi: कुछ लोग अपनी तैयारी करते हैं ,

Original English: The situation hasn't changed much since Bwelle's father passed away in 2002.
Translated Hindi: Bwelle is one of the poorest people in the village. He has never owned a house and he lives in a bamboo hut. He makes a living by growing corn. He has never been to school and he only knows how to read and write his name. I can't remember the last time

Original English: In Cameroon, there is only one doctor for every 5,000 people, according to the World Health Organization.
Translated Hindi: To help address this problem, the government recently introduced a new policy that aims to train and employ 1,000 community health workers. Many of these new health workers will be trained in mobile technology, which will allow them to access critical information and share it with the health workers who have the least access

Original English: For comparison's sake, the ratio in the United States is one doctor for every 413 people.
Translated Hindi: The ratio in Latin America is 1: 9,000. In India, it is 1: 10,000.
Hindi: बीचन के लिए, अमेरिकी दुनिया म

Original English: And even if they could see a physician, many Cameroonians couldn't afford it.
Translated Hindi: The median monthly income is less than $6. In addition, about 70 percent of the population has no health insurance and lives far from clinics and hospitals.
Hindi: और घर आप उपचर पर जाने से प

Original English: Two out of five people in the country live below the poverty line, and nearly three-quarters of the country's health-care spending is private.
Translated Hindi: Public hospitals are under-funded and under-staffed, and most poor patients rely on private doctors for treatment.
Hindi: देश में दो दो सब्ज़ियों पर दोस्ती,

Original English: "The only problem they have is poverty," Bwelle said.
Translated Hindi: "They are not educated. They are not proficient in French. They have no money, no job, and no food. They are just searching for food, and some are even ready to go to the border to rob and kill."
Hindi: "Wohi yahi prashna hai

Original English: And with poverty, they cannot enjoy their life.
Translated Hindi: So they try to do something which is illegal, something which is prohibited by the law of the land, by the law of the religion. They try to do that. And then they are caught. And after that they have to go through the police station, they have to go through the courts,

Original English: Seeing his father and so many of his countrymen suffer, Bwelle was determined to do something about it.
Translated Hindi: He told me that the main aim of the Nyanza Youth initiative was to provide jobs and training, not just for the people of his community, but for all the youth in the surrounding villages as well. Steering limited resources to the most vulnerable was a priority, but so was giving them a chance

Original English: Dr. Georges Bwelle and his team of volunteers have performed 700 free surgeries in the past year.
Translated Hindi: Now, they need our help to continue their work.
Hindi: डॉ. जॉर्जस बवेल और उनके वॉलंटी कटंच ने

Original English: He became a doctor himself, working as a vascular surgeon in Yaounde's Central Hospital.
Translated Hindi: In 2003, he was selected as one of 12 people from all over Africa for the Mandela Washington Fellowship.
Hindi: वह अपनी जानकारी देते नोट्स के द

Original English: And he started a nonprofit, ASCOVIME, that travels into rural areas on weekends to provide free medical care.
Translated Hindi: For the last two years, the group has provided 100,000 people with clean drinking water and has vaccinated 50,000 children against tuberculosis, polio, diphtheria, and measles. He also educates them about how to prevent malaria and AIDS. Because the majority of the area

Original English: Since 2008, he and his group of volunteers have helped nearly 32,000 people.
Translated Hindi: (Pankaj Sahay)
Hindi: उन्होंने उन्हें सरकार की मदद से 2008 से जुलाई 2013 तक द

Original English: Almost every Friday, he and up to 30 people jam into vans, tie medical supplies to the roofs and travel across rough terrain to visit villages in need.
Translated Hindi: They bring medicine and medical care to the people who need them most, and they hope to get treated themselves at the same time.
Hindi: कई बार, उसने और 30 लोगों को लाक

Original English: Their luck doesn't always hold out.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Kismat kee aagyaal kabhi bhi bhaanti na hote hai.

[Solved] English to Hindi Translation

The following sentence needs to be translated from English to Hindi. 
English: How many times did you make this mistake?
Hindi: Kaun

Original English: They've had to push vehicles through rivers and mud more than once.
Translated Hindi: They've had to do it twice. The bridge was washed away by the floods. They were driving through the river when it washed away. The road was washed away in the floods. Floods have washed away the road. The road has been washed away by floods.
Hindi: उन

Original English: But when they arrive, they receive a true heroes' welcome: a feast, singing and dancing, and the best accommodations the community can offer.
Translated Hindi: They are welcomed as messengers of peace, and are given gifts of food, clothing, and blankets.
Hindi: Par jab ve aate hain, unhe is aadharte ke liye achi shahayata milati hai: phal, gaane aur ghoomane

Original English: In these villages, free medical care is truly a cause for celebration, and Bwelle -- with his big smile and boundless energy -- is more than happy to join in the fun.
Translated Hindi: "I am happy to help these people," he says. "Every time I finish a treatment, I feel as if I have helped myself as well."
Hindi: इन गाँवों में स्वास्थ्य में

Original English: The next morning, the team begins meeting with hundreds of patients.
Translated Hindi: They are all there for the same purpose: to be screened to see if they have a problem with their neck, back, or limbs. The team members decide that they will treat all of the patients on the first day. When the team finishes, they have treated 400 patients. There are still

Original English: "We are receiving 500 people in each trip," Bwelle said.
Translated Hindi: "They come from different places, from Kinshasa, from Lubumbashi, from Kisangani, from Mbuji-Mayi, from Bukavu. There are many who come from the north of the country to join the rebels."
Hindi: "Hum 500 logon ko

Original English: They are coming from 60 kilometers around the village, and they're coming on foot.
Translated Hindi: The women, the children, the old people. They're all walking because they have no other choice.
Hindi: उनको 60 किलोमीटर की आगे आने वाले हैं

Original English: Each of these weekend clinics provides a variety of medical care.
Translated Hindi: There is typically a physician, nurse, and volunteers present. They typically set up in a church or community center.
Hindi: इन दस वेंडेंड क्लिनिक में एकीकृत

Original English: Many people are treated for malaria, tuberculosis, malnutrition, diabetes, parasites and sexually transmitted diseases.
Translated Hindi: They also receive treatment if they are injured or have problems with their eyes. The injured patients are also treated for diarrhoea and fever.
Hindi: वहाँ रोगी जिन्होंने लेकर पहल

Original English: Others might receive crutches, a pair of donated eyeglasses or free birth certificates -- documentation that's required for school but that many impoverished families simply can't afford.
Translated Hindi: But what do you do if you live in a place where the nearest school is hundreds of miles away? For the children of the semi-nomadic Maasai tribe, education is the key to a better future. Without the promise of education, many Maasai children face a life of poverty

Original English: In the evenings, the team will do simple surgeries with local anesthesia.
Translated Hindi: The team will teach the local doctors how to do these surgeries.
Hindi: Sundar din rahit, team ko local anasthesia se kam karne ke liye simple operation karenge. Team local Doctors ko is kam se jyada karne ka tarika sikh

Original English: Operations are usually done in a schoolhouse, town hall or home; after the procedure, patients get up and walk to the recovery area to make way for the next person.
Translated Hindi: After a short stay in the recovery area, the patients are sent home or to a hospital or nursing home.
Hindi: School, townhall, or home is usually for operations; after the procedure, patients walk to the recovery area to make way for the next patient. After a short stay in

Original English: With the group's generator lighting the operating room and sanitizing equipment, Bwelle and his volunteers work into the early hours of Sunday morning.
Translated Hindi: By daybreak, the delivery will be complete. A makeshift morgue is set up in the hospital's courtyard with a nearby tent for the doctors to care for surviving victims. Bwelle says a total of 80 patients were treated, 65 of whom were discharged. The rest were still

Original English: It's a backbreaking pace, but village musicians usually help keep the team motivated.
Translated Hindi: With a combination of melody and rhythm, the musicians instill in the team a sense of pride and unity.
Hindi: Yeh kaam hai toh kamaal ka. Sheher se laa kar village tak, khoob kaam kerte hue, shaan se mujh ko

Original English: "They are beating drums all night to keep us awake and continue our work," Bwelle said.
Translated Hindi: "We have been on strike for two weeks. We are ready to die for our rights. We are ready to die for our future children. " Hindi: “लालगोधन लड़ाने वाले डाम

Original English: On Sunday, the team heads back to the city, tired but proud of their work.
Translated Hindi: The next day, they get a surprise when their host tells them that the people of the village were so impressed by their efforts that they set up a school the next day, using the money the team had donated for the school. The team is delighted and plans to return in a few months time,

Original English: The group -- a mix of Cameroonian doctors and foreign medical students -- has performed 700 free surgeries in the past year, and they know that their help can make a world of difference to those they help.
Translated Hindi: The surgeries are free, but they have to pay for the patients' food, lodging and transportation, which can amount to thousands of dollars. The group, which is organized through the St. Boniface Hospital in Winnipeg, has been bringing doctors and students to Cameroon for 22 years. [The Globe

Original English: One man explained that the free hernia surgery he'd received will allow him to work again.
Translated Hindi: He'd been unable to work for years because of his condition, but now he expects to return to work before long and resume paying taxes.
Hindi: एक नियोगी ने कहा कि उन्होंने

Original English: "This will change my future with my family," the man said.
Translated Hindi: "A new vehicle will help me become more independent."
5. Translate the following sentences from English to Hindi:
English: I am a student of class 7.
English: I study in class 7.
6. Translate the following sentences from English to Hindi:
English: I drink milk.
English

Original English: In addition to holding these weekend clinics and working as a hospital surgeon, Bwelle also works nights at private medical clinics around Yaounde.
Translated Hindi: There, he is paid 12,000 FCFA (about $20) per patient, but he only sees seven to eight patients a night. The patients he sees at night are mostly the ones who cannot afford his weekend rates, or those who are not covered by health insurance. Bwelle

Original English: It's this second job, he said, that funds about 60% of his nonprofit; the rest is covered by private donations.
Translated Hindi: The nonprofit helps provide support and counseling for widows and orphans through a network of 200 churches in northern India. The organization has an annual budget of about $95,000, but for the past few years, as demand has increased, the money has fallen short. Already, it's turned

Original English: "I'm not sure when he sleeps," said Katie O'Malley, a second-year medical student from Drexel University in Philadelphia and volunteer with Bwelle's group.
Translated Hindi: "But he's always very happy."
Hindi: “मैं तो उसके बारे में शर्मिंदा नहीं कर सकता हूँ, क

Original English: He is always either at the hospital or trying to make money for the organization so he can go on these campaigns.
Translated Hindi: His wife is out of town and he is alone.
Hindi: Humare samay main bahut kam log raat bhar samay bhar hospital main rehte hain. Woh apne organization ke liye paise banaate hain, toh woh desh

Original English: For medical and nursing students such as O'Malley, who come from the United States and Europe to join Bwelle on his missions, it's a hands-on opportunity they'd never get at home.
Translated Hindi: "It's a great experience to see how to use medical skills in the real world," said O'Malley. "You realize how important these skills are when you have no access to medical care."
Hindi: यूनाइटेड राज्य

Original English: "We've been able to scrub in on surgeries where we help blot blood away or hold tools for Dr. Bwelle," O'Malley said.
Translated Hindi: "I think it's really important for students to see what it's like to be a surgeon." Hindi: "Hum surgery me scrub in hone ke liye use karate hai, jo blood ko likhne me madad kar sakte hai, ya tools ko pakadne ke liye

Original English: That's not something you'd ever get to do in America as a second-year medical student.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Yeh America ke second year medical student ke liye kuch nahi hota hai. 

Thanks :D

wow4wows: Yeh America ki second year medical student ke liye kuch nahi hoga. 

OP: Thanks.

wow

Original English: The student volunteers usually pay their own way to Cameroon, often arriving with donated medical supplies.
Translated Hindi: Those who are admitted to the medical programme pay a small fee to cover food and accommodation. The medical team is led by a doctor who has worked in Africa for over 15 years. The student volunteers see patients from the community, some of whom have walked over five kilometres to be seen. The team

Original English: But once they arrive in Yaounde, their board, transportation and instruction are covered by Bwelle.
Translated Hindi: The pupils have no tuition fee to pay. They are housed in a house near the school, receive a small monthly allowance, and are given a small plot of land to cultivate at the end of their first year. They are allowed to take one text book home every week to study, and they are

Original English: "He's a hero, without a doubt," O'Malley said.
Translated Hindi: "He is the one who, I think, best exemplifies what the game is all about."
Hindi: वह एक दुःख, किसी भी भ्रम से भूलने व

Original English: He gives his life to this organization, and his desire to help the Cameroon people is everlasting.
Translated Hindi: He will be remembered for his work and his spirit.
Hindi: He apne jivan ko organization ke liye is vighatana mein dedeta hai aur us kam ke liye kisi bhi tarah se koi kam nahi kar sakta hai. Yeh is vy

Original English: For Bwelle, the near-constant workload isn't a hardship.
Translated Hindi: It is a privilege and a responsibility, one that comes with the village's respect and trust. "It's what I love," says Bwelle, who was also a teacher before returning to the village to serve as a healer. "It's my passion."
Hindi: फॉ

Original English: Helping others live happier lives, fulfilling a promise he made to his father, is something that brings him great joy.
Translated Hindi: As a volunteer, he has helped to provide food and clothing to the less fortunate. He has also helped to build a house for a family in need. He likes to bring joy to people’s lives. This is why he has chosen to volunteer at an orphanage. He believes that volunteering can create

Original English: "I am so happy when I am doing this work," Bwelle said.
Translated Hindi: "I am not afraid anymore. I am happy because I can do this."
Hindi: "यह कार्य करना मेरी ख़ुशी में है। मुझे इस

Original English: And I think about my father.
Translated Hindi: He had a blue collar job. He came home every night, ate dinner, watched TV, went to bed. My friend, she's a doctor. She's up half the night with her pager, she works weekends, she works a second job, she's on call twenty-four hours a day

Original English: I hope he sees what I am doing.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: में इसको करना क्या देख रहा है? 
Translate from Hindi to English
English: मेरा अच्छा दोस्त 
Hindi:

Original English: To make people laugh, to reduce the pain, that's why I'm doing this.
Translated Hindi: I don't care if I'm not getting paid. I'm doing this for free.
Hindi: इस्लाम के इस्लाम ना यानी मेरे शहर में कुछ

Original English: Check out the ASCOVIME website and see how to help.
Translated Hindi: See how to help yourself.
Hindi: अगर आप सहायता करने के लिए अधिक जानकारी चाहते हैं, त

Original English: You may not believe it but it is true.
Translated Hindi: I saw a cat crossing the road.
Hindi: Tum nahi manenge per sach hai mai ne dekha tha. Ek chita gadi ke samne padi thi.
ANSWER: Tum nahi manenge per sach hai mai ne dekha tha. Ek ch

Original English: Not only that, but the name of Mission road was changed to the name of the City Legislator, Anjali Kumar.
Translated Hindi: After all, the road was built by the Chinese, to connect towards the 15,000 feet high Himalayan Mountain range. But, now who uses it, just the kids, who play cricket and hurl stones at the Chinese. The road is no longer used by the army, or the police

Original English: Actually, the Jharkhand Development Youth Forum had changed the name to express their anger at the bad condition of the roads.
Translated Hindi: For a long time, the villagers in this area have been demanding that the authorities look at the bad condition of the roads. The villagers had also put up a banner in this regard, but to no avail. It is said that the authorities only do the work of removing the banner. In this connection

Original English: The program was led by the JMM central secretary, Sachchidanand Pandey.
Translated Hindi: The central Secretary Mr. Satyendra Singh gave the welcome address and introduced the chief guest. The Chief Guest, Mr. Suresh Ram, welcomed the audience and gave the key note address. He said that India should march on the path of industrialization and globalization. He said that the government

Original English: While addressing a rally Modi said, "If you listen to all the speeches given by all the leaders of Congress, then you will see that they never talk about what they have done."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मॉडी ने एक रैली में बोले," किसी भी कांग्रेस के उप प्रदेशपाल के

Original English: He said, "Congress has become so arrogant that does not answer media questions."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Wo kahne laga ki "Congress nind udta hai, media ke sawalon ko nahi samajhti."
1. Swap the original text with the translation
2. If the original text is absolutely right, just submit 0
3. If the translation is absolutely

Original English: Manmohan Singh is the Prime Minister and it is his government, yet they want Modi to respond.
Translated Hindi: What is the logic?

हिंदी: मनमोहन सिंह तय करता है कि इसी सरकार की गवर्नमेंट ह

Original English: Answering the public's questions is your duty.
Translated Hindi: You must give the correct information at the right time to the right people. You must be honest, truthful and reliable.
Hindi: जन आपके कर्तव्य हैं। जन के प्रश्न

Original English: Clearly, Modi was referring to Sibal, who had told journalists in Delhi that Modi wants to create an environment where he is in control, where he gives his speeches and he does not talk to journalists in order to avoid their questions.
Translated Hindi: The BJP leader was also referring to the alleged decline of secularism in the country and his party’s effort to prevent it.
Hindi: कृतियों को बताते हुए, मोदी ने बत

Original English: Sibal challenged Modi to a face to face debate.
Translated Hindi: Modi replied: I will debate with him, but not before 2014 elections.
Hindi: अब्दुल शीबल ने मोदी को ब्रेकिंग खबरों

Original English: Modi said, "I promise the people of the country that when the BJP will form the government in 2014, then we will submit a report each year to the public."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: मोदी ने कहा, "मैं देश के लोगों की जरूरत या भाजपा राष्ट्रीय

Original English: Congress has given the tickets to all his former legislators.
Translated Hindi: Even in the past, most of the Congress MLAs were former legislators.

Original English: In the list there are 6 old and 2 new faces.
Translated Hindi: Out of them 2 are girls, 3 are boys and 3 are from India. Only 1 boy is younger than 3 years old. The name of the boy is not the name of the girl. The names of the girl and the boy are not the same. The name of

Original English: The new faces who have been given a chance include Nirmala Sapre from the Bina Assembly constituency's Sagar District and Pratapsingh Lodhi from Jabera Assembly Constituency's Damoha District.
Translated Hindi: The other two names are from the Bhopal district. The names are Dr. Vijaylaxmi Sadho of the Badwah Assembly Constituency and Surendra Singh of the Narela Assembly Constituency. These names were cleared by the BJP Parliamentary Board. The BJP

Original English: Three from Sagar, two from Tikamgarh and one legislator from Chhatrapur have been given a ticket again.
Translated Hindi: The party will declare the remaining five candidates on Tuesday.
Hindi: Sagar, Tikamgarh aur Chhatrapur ke dalit yuvakon ka ticket ek hi saath dete hue, aaj se 2 saal baad ek saath 3, aur do

Original English: As predicted, Govind Singh from Surkhiin Sagar, Arunoday Chaubey from Khurai and Narayan Prajapati from Banda are candidates again.
Translated Hindi: The Congress has given tickets to all three. But, they all are caught in controversies. Surkhiin Sagar police had arrested Govind Singh last year for harassing and threatening his wife. He is also accused of threatening party workers who had voted for the BJP candidate. Arunoday Chaub

Original English: Tickets have been given to Yadavendra Singh from Tikamgarh and to Brujendra Singh Rathore from Prithvipur and Vikramsingh's grandson Raja from Rajnagar Chhattarpur.
Translated Hindi: I have booked tickets for all of them and they will be coming to Delhi on the evening flight of today.
Hindi: Yadavendra Singh tikamgarhi, Brujendra Singh Rathore prithvipuri, Vikram Singh ka putra Raja Rajnagar chhatrapur

Original English: All these are current legislators in these constituencies.
Translated Hindi: Please vote for the candidate of your choice.
Hindi: Ye sabhi constituency ke current legislators hain. Aapka manana hai ki aapke pasandida karmchari kis candidate ka vishwas karna hai.

Original English: It has been decided that, after the first lists from the BJP and Congress, the contest will be between the new faces from both parties in Bina.
Translated Hindi: The old faces have been removed from the electoral rolls and new faces have been placed in their place. The contest will be between the new faces of the BJP and Congress.
Hindi: बिना के राज्यपति चुनाव क

Original English: Mahesh Rai of the BJP and Nirmala Sapre of the Congress will face each other in Bina.
Translated Hindi: The Congress has fielded Nirmala Sapre for the second time. She lost to Mahesh Rai in the previous election.
Hindi: कांग्रेस की निरमला सप्रे और भाजपा क

Original English: At present in the Prithvipur Tikamgarh Congress the MLA, Brijendra Singh Rathore, is running against the late former minister's wife, Anita Nayak
Translated Hindi: , who is running on the Congress ticket and is supported by the late minister's son, Arun Nayak. The former minister's wife was defeated by the late minister's son in the 2008 assembly elections. The former minister's wife has vowed to defeat the late minister's son this time

Original English: The current MLA Vikramsingh's grandson, Raja of Raj Nagar, will be challenged by Ramkrushna Kusumariya of the BJP.
Translated Hindi: Raja is the son of MLA's son, Jagdish Singh. He could not take up the post because of his age. Kusumariya is a resident of Bhagwanpura in the district's south.
In this post, you will find a small column with each word of

Original English: Arunoday Chaubey the MLA of Khurai and the MLA Bhupendra Singh of the BJP will go face to face.
Translated Hindi: Manish Singh the candidate of the BJP will face Arunoday Chaubey the candidate of the Congress. Who will win the battle is still a question.
Hindi: अरुनोदय चौबे खौआई

Original English: Govind Rajput, the MLA from Surakhi, is being challenged by the BJP's youth leader, Paril Sahoo.
Translated Hindi: This is the first time Sahoo will run for a seat in the legislative assembly. Sahoo, who hails from the same village as Rajput, will be facing him in the upcoming elections.
Hindi: गोविंद राजपूत

Original English: He has been assigned to the Assembly elections at the state level to Election Director and reception committees.
Translated Hindi: The task of the Director of the Election Assembly elections at the state level is to conduct the election. Election Director is the main post of the Election Commission. He is in charge of all the activities of the election. All the offices and officers of the Election Commission report directly to him
Hindi:

Original English: The strong contestant of State Vice-President Raipur North Seat, Sachchidanand Upasane, has been appointed Raipur Rural Seat's election Director.
Translated Hindi: He is also a senior leader of the party and a senior leader of the party, who has been appointed to the post of Vice-President of the State.
Hindi: रायपुर उत्तर उपचिक्षित उ

Original English: Upasane has been asked to handle the State office and also tour the State if required.
Translated Hindi: The State office has been relocated to Thane.
Hindi: उपसद का स धन पर तकन क न करन च ह ए है और भी र ज यग

Original English: As the State President Ramsevak Paikara and Secretary Shivratan Sharma, along with many other officials, are contesting the elections, Secretary Rampratap is left to handle the organisation alone.
Translated Hindi: It is quite obvious that he is not doing his job well.
Hindi: भारतीय संस्कृति, संस्थागत एवं संगीत मंच (आ

Original English: Because of this, Upasane has been handed a great responsibility.
Translated Hindi: His life should now be spent
in self-realisation. He has to help others in their self-realisation.
Hindi: Isliye, Upasane ko bohot kucha

Original English: The North seat contestant, RDA President Sunil Soni, has been given the responsible position of the Raipur South Seat election director.
Translated Hindi: It is a matter of honour for all the members of the North seat. I am sure that under his leadership, the South seat will put up a great show in the upcoming elections.
Hindi: राजधानी देशचर्चा

Original English: Another contender, Regional Municipal Corporation Chairman Sanjay Srivastava, has been given a seat on the reception committee.
Translated Hindi: But, the senior leaders of the party in Indore are not very happy with his inclusion.
Hindi: एक अध्ययन राज्य महापालिका की अध्यक्ष

Original English: He will receive the party's star campaigner national leaders to help the coming and going.
Translated Hindi: The party's leadership and the BJP's national president and other senior party leaders will work to increase the number of voters.
Hindi: उन्होंने तबीयत को देंगे उनका प

Original English: On this committee there are some more contenders, along with Soni.
Translated Hindi: For example, a former member of the committee, Dr. Sardar Ali Khan, whose expertise is in the field of education. There is also a member of the committee, Dr. Neelam Singh, a well-known sociologist. Her expertise is in the field of sociology. The other

Original English: Shyam Basaarng seat and Leelaraam Bhojwani will conduct the election for the Rajnandgaon seat.
Translated Hindi: The election will be held on the 11th of this month.
Hindi: श्याम बसारंग सीट और लीलाराम भोजवानी राज

Original English: A colourful program was organized by the Association.
Translated Hindi: It was a grand success.
Hindi: एक रंगरचना प्रगति कवायदा एक ऐसा हजार सहायक दीवाल

Original English: In the Diwali program the singer Hargun graced the function with his beautiful songs.
Translated Hindi: The orchestra made the function lively and melodious.
Hindi: थे दिवाली का में दिवाली का के वैक्स वाले ग्राहक एक

Original English: In the Diwali program organised under the leadership of Bar President Advocate, Pradeep Saini Jidge, Bar association officials and lawyers were present.
Translated Hindi: In this program, all the members of the Bar Association were involved. Advocate Jhajjar Jide said that this program is organized on the occasion of the auspicious festival of Diwali and the Bar Association has always tried to spread the message of patriotism, brotherhood, peace and love in

Original English: The District and Sessions Judge, Harminder Singh Madan, said that festivals of all religions in the country should be celebrated by everybody.
Translated Hindi: He said that for the unity and integrity of the country, all religious festivals should be celebrated by all the people.
Hindi: मानवता में वेशभूषा एवं विशेषता

Original English: The Bar Association President Advocate, Pradeep Saini, said every year  the bar association celebrates all the festivals without discrimination and with devotion and enthusiasm.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: बार असोसिएशन के प्रधान अधिकारी प्रदीप सैनी ने कहा, कभी-क

Original English: Hundreds of devotees attended this event.
Translated Hindi: The program was a big success. The audience enjoyed the show. Everyone had a blast. The event was a huge success.
Hindi: यह खत क नई बात है क सब ने यह अद

Original English: On the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti, the god Hanuman was worshipped on Devika beach.
Translated Hindi: The devotees had displayed banners, posters and lit diyas in the evening.
Hindi: भगवान हनुमान पर महावीर जयंती के अवसर पर द

Original English: At this event Advocate Surinder Khajuria said that a yagna had been organized at eight o'clock on Friday morning with a ritual obeisance to Lord Mahavira.
Translated Hindi: He said that for the welfare of the public, all the people must take part in the yagna. There is a need to stop the negative trends in society. He said that the yagna would be organized at various places of Jammu city and all the people will have to participate in it.

Original English: Veneration was started at nine o'clock in the morning and ended at 12 o'clock.
Translated Hindi: During veneration, the priest incenses the relic of St. Francis Xavier, which is placed on a table. The faithful genuflect and make the sign of the cross in front of the relic, and spend some time in prayer, before going back to their pews. After the end of

Original English: He said that after the veneration a grand bhandara was organised with the help of the citizens, in which people of all religions in the city came to pray.
Translated Hindi: A grand feast was organised for the guests. The devotees had offered 1,000 cows at the temple. The entire expenditure was borne by the devotees. He said that the devotees were organising the celebrations for 15 days. He said that the Ganesha was worshipped at three

Original English: Obama's Health Care Walk Back
Translated Hindi: s Away from Government Takeover of Health Care
Hindi: ओबामा के आधीन और विनर्जी सरकार की स्वास्थ्य देन क

Original English: Amid a firestorm of criticism, President Obama yesterday walked back his oft-repeated, unambiguous promise that "if you like your health plan, you can keep it."
Translated Hindi: He also said that while he cannot make sure that every individual will be able to keep his or her plan, he will "do everything we can" to help them.
Hindi:
तेज जुर्म की जांचों से

Original English: With hundreds of thousands receiving cancellation notices from their providers, Republicans have slammed the president in recent days for misleading the American public.
Translated Hindi: But the same people, who once boasted that they would be able to repeal the law, are now virtually silent.
Hindi: एकदम तरीके से निकली गयी हैं, वह

Original English: Yesterday, Obama tweaked his original pledge.
Translated Hindi: He said that he would only go after Osama bin Laden if he were certain he was in a situation where he could capture or kill him. Well, yesterday, Obama decided that situation has arrived. He said he is going after bin Laden. It is the most important terrorist in the world.
Hindi

Original English: "For the vast majority of people who have health insurance that works, you can keep it," he said in a speech in Boston.
Translated Hindi: "It will be there for you when you need it. It will be there for your family. You won't have to worry about insurance companies dropping your coverage or denying you coverage or jacking up the premiums because you get sick."
Hindi: "अगर आपक

Original English: Addressing what he called the "flurry in the news" about the cancellations, Obama urged Americans receiving these notices to shop for new coverage in the marketplace.
Translated Hindi: "If you've been receiving cancellation notices, shop around for a new plan," he said. "You'll find better quality at a lower price."
Hindi: यदि आपके बचत सुने बुरे ख

Original English: Most people are going to be able to get better, comprehensive health care plans for the same price or even cheaper than projected.
Translated Hindi: It's going to be a great deal for the American people, and we're very excited about it.
Hindi: दोस्तों, ज्यादातर लोगों को हिंदी और

Original English: "You're going to get a better deal," he said.
Translated Hindi: "You're going to get a better deal."
Hindi: "Aapko adhik kuch milega" , he said. "Aapko adhik kuch milega."

This is a basic example of converting English sentences to Hindi using the NER API. The API

Original English: The administration has said it should come as no surprise that the 5 percent of the population who purchase insurance on their own may be forced to switch plans because their coverage doesn't meet the new standards required under the Affordable Care Act.
Translated Hindi: 

Original English: "Let me say directly to these Americans: you deserve better," Sebelius said in testimony before the House Energy and Commerce Committee in Washington.
Translated Hindi: "You deserve an apology from this administration for the way the law was rolled out, and the broken promises on your website."
Hindi: "Mujhe yahon kahne ki aavashyakta hai ki aapko sahi jankari bhi nahi hai

Original English: Sebelius, who is overseeing implementation of the Affordable Care Act, said the launch of the online marketplace has gone "miserably" since October.
Translated Hindi: She told a Senate subcommittee she is "not satisfied with the performance at all."
Hindi translation (below)
Hindi: Sebelius, jo Affordable Care Act ki implement karna ke liye garig hai, said the online marketplace launch has go "miserably" since October.

Original English: "I am as frustrated and angry as anyone," she said.
Translated Hindi: "I am so tired of all the back and forth and all the arguments and all the animosity. Here we are, the richest nation on earth, and the best we can do is this?"
Hindi: "Mujhe koi bhi takleef nahee hui aur mai

Original English: I am eager to earn your confidence back.
Translated Hindi: I will try my best to make the most out of my second chance.
Hindi: मुझे आपका परिवार का सदन बचाने में कोशिश करना

Original English: An exasperated Sebelius uttered that phrase, caught by a hot mic, to an aide seated behind her at yesterday's House hearing following a contentious exchange with Rep. Billy Long, R-Mo., over whether she should be required to enroll in Obamacare.
Translated Hindi: The exchange between Long and Sebelius is the latest in a string of political skirmishes over the law and who will be forced to comply with its regulations.
Hindi: Sebelius ne kahana kiya kya hai Ki aapko is baare me kuch bhi sam

Original English: More than three hours into the hearing, Long repeatedly pressed Sebelius on why the "architect" of the Affordable Care Act has not voluntarily forgone government-sponsored insurance to purchase a plan through HealthCare.gov, which she is now pitching to millions of Americans.
Translated Hindi: Sebelius said she has insurance through the government, but that it was not through the HealthCare.gov exchange.
Hindi: English: More than three hours into the hearing, Long repeatedly pressed Sebelius on why the "architect" of the Affordable Care Act has not voluntarily forgone government

Original English: It has been revealed that a ransom of two lakh rupees was demanded from the trader.
Translated Hindi: The police have launched a manhunt to nab the kidnappers.
Hindi: कतारपटक के व्यवसायका वार्ा का जबाबरम करना किय

Original English: If no money was paid he was threatened and told his daughter would be kidnapped.
Translated Hindi: If money was paid, he was told that it was not enough and that he would have to pay more.
Hindi: यदि कोई न दिया गया तो उसके बच्च

Original English: In a case registered in the Hudkeshwar police station efforts to solve the crime are being taken by the cyber cell.
Translated Hindi: The victim named Rahul has lodged a complaint. He has claimed that he was cheated by two people by showing him a fake profile on Facebook and that they have cheated him of Rs. 2 lakhs. The complainant has lodged a complaint in the Hudkeshwar police station and the police has

Original English: Narendra Bahad (21),a resident of Ayodhya City, is the owner of an electronics shop.
Translated Hindi: On Friday, 6 June 2014, he was returning to his shop after attending the marriage ceremony of his family. He was riding his motorcycle and was accompanied by his wife. As he was returning home, he and his wife were stopped by a group of five Muslim men. When he tried

Original English: Between the 25th and the 29th he received calls from various numbers on his mobile.
Translated Hindi: On 27th he received calls from '000' and on 29th from '009'. He also received a call from an unknown number on the 26th. He also received a call from an unknown number on 29th. The call from the '009' number lasted for

Original English: The callers asked for two lakh rupees as ransom.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: बोले उन्होंने दो लाख रूपए जबकि लाना था.

10. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
अब

Original English: He was threatened that if the money was not paid Narendra would be killed or his daughter would be kidnapped.
Translated Hindi: There was no other way out except to pay the money.
Hindi: युवक को अपराधी ने उनसे बताया कि वह चोरी कर रहे

Original English: Narendra did not take the threats seriously at first, but when the threats started to increase and his 12th. Std. daughter was threatened he became worried.
Translated Hindi: He had thought that after his 10th. Std. he would be able to find a job but it did not happen. He is now 27 years old and has not been able to find a job.
Hindi: Narendar ko sab pehle se hi majboor na

Original English: The family members are frightened.
Translated Hindi: They have been waiting for hours. The body is not yet found.
Hindi: दक्षिणी दोषगाव की परिवारी विपरीत हैं. गंभ

Original English: A complaint was lodged on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: The complaint was with regard to the delay in the release of the student’s mark sheet. The college authorities assured that the mark sheet would be sent to the student by Friday.
Hindi: घोषणा आज को अपराह्न

Original English: No clue to the identity of the criminals has yet been found.
Translated Hindi: The police are groping in the dark. Their activities are not only illegal but also criminal.
Hindi: दोषकारों के प्रति कोई न कोई धारणा न की

Original English: Given the severity of the case support from the cyber crime cell is being sought.
Translated Hindi: We are working with local authorities to curb the menace of such cyber crimes.
Hindi: हमे यह भारतीय क्राइम ब्यूरो डिपार्टमेंट को

Original English: In addition, MLA Bandal has ordered the officials from the villages of Bhagiwander, Bandar Patti, Lalena, Jjal Fulokhari Gatwali and Malkana to meet the people personally and to solve their problems face to face.
Translated Hindi: The officials should also assemble in the office of the MLA every Sunday. MLA Bandal has also instructed the new officers to remain active.
Hindi: उद्वाइक: एमएलए बंदल ने, उ

Original English: The MP has also released grants for rural development.
Translated Hindi: The MPs of privileged constituencies should be more generous while releasing grants.
Hindi: उच्चाधिकारी ने ग्रांट्स रुचि विकास के लिए

Original English: He ordered the panchayat that the grant released for rural development had to be used properly in order to benefit the village residents.  He took stock of the ongoing paddy procurement arrangements in Bhagiwander village.
Translated Hindi: He asked the panchayat representatives to identify the works that could be taken up with the funds released under the national rural livelihood mission.
This is the same construction that I observed in the last post.  I think the same construction is used in Sanskrit.
Hindi: W

Original English: He awarded the 15 girls who had received training in sewing with a sewing machine, plants and certificates.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Wo 15 ladkiyon ko, jo stitch karne ke liye training paaye the, sewing machine, plants aur certificates par patr mila kar unko award diya.
2. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: A teacher bought a new car and

Original English: At this time the village of Bhagiwander has 400 congressmen and PPPs, Laleanna has 35 Congressmen and PPPs and the village of Jjal has 71 families following Akali Dal, excluding Congress and PPP members.
Translated Hindi: Of the 400 congressmen, 70 are in jail and 80 are out on bail.
Hindi: Aaj kal log in gavanon mein Congress ka chunav hai, Congress ka chunav hai. Congress ka chunav hai, Congress ka chunav hai.

Original English: Badal said that the farmers in Punjab are being insulted in the markets due to the standards set by the Centre for procurement, while the Centre has always discriminated against the farmers of the Punjab.
Translated Hindi: He alleged that the Centre did not pay heed to the repeated requests of the state government to increase the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy. Badal said that the farmers of the country had lost their faith in the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) due

Original English: Also present with him were DC K.K. Yadav, SSP Ravcharan Singh Barad, ADC D. Sonali Giri, ADC Rajiv Parashar, SDM Shruti Sharma, Talavadi Sabo Area Incharge Balveer Singh, Sarpanch Kulwant Singh Virk along with administrative officers of various departments and Akali leaders.
Translated Hindi: The people of the area, too, were present in large numbers.
Hindi: उनके अति अनुषय दक यादव, अपने भाई, अपने

Original English: Due to which the number of cases of violations of the code of conduct are declining.
Translated Hindi: This is a very important step for the country.
Hindi: उस कारक के वजह से राजनीती का नियंत्रण के नियम के ल

Original English: After the implementation of the election code of conduct between October 4th to October 21st, 313 cases were lodged against various political parties.
Translated Hindi: In these cases, 313 people were arrested. In the 313 cases, 357 FIRs were registered against 633 people. 9 people were arrested for abuse of the model code of conduct. During the election campaign, 4 cases were lodged against 14 people. 3 cases were

Original English: While only 31 cases were registered between October 22nd and October 27th.
Translated Hindi: It may be recalled that on October 26th, the Centre had ordered a 10-day ban on internet services in the valley, which was relaxed partially on October 28th. The ban was imposed after the government feared that the separatists might use the internet to mobilise a mass protest against

Original English: With the implementation of the election code of conduct cases of its violation were also being reported.
Translated Hindi: In a recent instance, a video clip showing a woman politician leading a rally in support of her party candidates in a villages of Muzaffarnagar district surfaced and was widely shared on social media. In the video, the woman leader was seen asking the crowd to raise slogans against the ruling party,

Original English: Initially there were many complaints, but gradually they are becoming fewer.
Translated Hindi: I am optimistic, that they will become non-existent.
Hindi: Yeh sab kuchh shuru se hi kuchh ghatnae hain par abh tak pata nahi kyon, humein thikane se kaha jata hain. Abhi to

Original English: It is being said that, as no-one had full information about the code of conduct, the number of complaints registered against the political parties was rising.
Translated Hindi: However, in recent times, the Election Commission has given a lot of information to the public about the code of conduct. Its intention is that it should be implemented in the true sense of the word. The Election Commission has decided to make the code of conduct more effective from the next election. It is

Original English: As the election commission made the political parties aware of them and asked them to learn a lesson from the registered complaints the complaints have reduced.
Translated Hindi: But the complaint registered by the commission of the election was very high as compared to the previous election. The political parties are not ready to understand the new rule and are not ready to follow the rules. They are trying to break the rules of the election commission. There are many problems and difficulties that are

Original English: Many parties were campaigning in an old fashioned manner because of a lack of information, but when action was taken against them they stopped doing that.
Translated Hindi: The real reason for this is that the reason for the high voltage of non-electricity was that it was being generated by coal, but due to the use of solar energy, it is difficult to generate electricity. Therefore, the parties were able to generate a lot of electricity at low cost and in

Original English: The political parties are learning about the election code of conduct and are also complying with it.
Translated Hindi: The Election Commission has issued guidelines to political parties to stick to the norms of the code of conduct while campaigning. The campaigning for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections has begun. The Election Commission has issued guidelines to political parties for adhering to the code of conduct while campaigning. It has directed political parties

Original English: Due to this the number of cases of code violation have declined.
Translated Hindi: So, it is mandatory to have a time slot for each player. The user can select the time slot by himself/herself. The user can select the time slot by himself/herself. This time slot will be communicated to the user via email. But the user may not be able to

Original English: A proposal concerning this matter has been sent to the government on behalf of ADA, which is soon going to be approved.
Translated Hindi: Since the government has not yet started any work in this regard, therefore this proposal is for your approval. This proposal will be sent to the government as soon as possible.
Hindi: यह मामला एडए में रखी

Original English: This historical city, surrounded on three sides by Ganga-Jamuna has no land left where ADA can plan a big residential project.
Translated Hindi: In view of the current situation, it would be very difficult to launch any project in here.
Hindi: इस ी इतिह ा इतन जट ा जल मन पर गंगा य

Original English: So now they have decided to plan residential projects beyond Jhunsi in the east, Fafamau in the north, and beyond Naini in the South.
Translated Hindi: The dream of the residents of the city is to see the city grow and develop in a planned manner. The residents want to see the city grow and develop in a planned manner. For this, the residents have already started the process of formulating the master plan of the city. The residents have already

Original English: To make the plan inclusive a meeting was held under the chairmanship of the District collector, Rajshekhar.
Translated Hindi: Officers of the district administration, police, the collectorate, the revenue department and the forest department were present in the meeting. The collector reviewed the plan of the district administration to implement the directives of the Supreme Court. The meeting was informed that the plan was made after consultation with the district administration, the

Original English: ADA has plans to include the villages of Phulpur, Soranva, and Kurchhuna, with a population of two hundred citizens.
Translated Hindi: The community has been requesting for a water supply system for a long time. The main reason behind the non-fulfillment of this requirement has been that the government has not provided any financial support.
Hindi: ADA ne pahle se hi phulpur, soranva aur kurch

Original English: After being included in the ADA boundary the Chaka and Bahadur blocks will be completed.
Translated Hindi: The remaining work will be completed in the next project.
Hindi: अब अगर एडा के रास्ते क रास्ते में चका और बहाद

Original English: Half of the Kaudihar block will be brought within the ADA boundary.
Translated Hindi: The Kaudihar block will be merged with the adjoining gram panchayats and the remaining area will be brought within the ADA boundary. The proposal has to be considered in this context. At present, the area under Kaudihar block is 17 square kilometer. If the area of the

Original English: According to Amarnath Upadhyaya, secretary of ADA, a proposal concerning this matter has been sent to the government.
Translated Hindi: The government has agreed to this proposal and a committee has been formed.
Hindi: अगर अमरनाथ उपाध्याय, ADA सेरेटरी, इस बात से सह

Original English: ADA wants to bring the boundaries of these grampanchayants under its authorisation for planning, and will begin work on it soon.
Translated Hindi: All grampanchayants of the state will be brought under the planning in the next two years.
Hindi: साथी मानव श्रेष्ठ एवं उपभोक्ताओं के

Original English: If that happens, the price of buildings will decline in the city.
Translated Hindi: The value of the land will also decline.
Hindi: Agar yah ho jaye to, Ghar ki Bech mein lambe saal tak nishpesh ho jayega. Kisanon ke ghar ki Bech mein bhi shram ka asar padega

Original English: The availability of housing for the general public will be increased.
Translated Hindi: The availability of housing will be increased for the lower middle class, middle class and general public. The general public will be able to afford houses of the standard they desire.
Hindi: देश म परमाणु रुपाये म ऑली

Original English: Soon residential palaces on the lines of Lucknow and Noida will begin to be built in these new areas.
Translated Hindi: The Government will soon announce the names of such areas.
Hindi: Abhi tak Lucknow aur Noida ki tarah badalon ko banane wale gharon ki tarah yahan bhi naye gharon ke liye hamare samne ek naya aay

Original English: In the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32 ENT department head, Prof. Arjun Das of the National Academy of Medical Sciences New Delhi, has been selected for the fellowship.
Translated Hindi: He will receive the fellowship at the academy’s annual conference in India from March 17 to 19.
Hindi: गवर्नमेंट मेडिकल कॉलेज और हॉस्पिटल

Original English: He has received this fellowship for his remarkable work in the field of ear, nose, throat medicine.
Translated Hindi: We congratulate him for this achievement.

Hindi: वे एक ऐतिहासिक योजना के लिए उनका अद्भुत काम के लिए

Original English: According to the Director of the Institute, Principal Prof. Atul Sachdeva, he is the second faculty member of the institute to have received the fellowship.
Translated Hindi: “We are proud of Prof. Avadhesh Kumar Singh, who has received the fellowship at the institute. We are proud of our faculty and I am sure he will continue to serve this nation and the society well. We congratulate him,” said the Director.
Hindi: According to the Director of

Original English: The human population has exceeded 7 billion.
Translated Hindi: This
has a direct impact on the availability of water.
Hindi: Humani populyasiyon mein 7 billion se zyada ho
gayaa hai. Ye paani ke aas-paas bhari utsah ke ko
aayojan ke liye ek

Original English: If the population continues to increase this way, the time will soon come when mustering a morsel for every hungry mouth would be very difficult.
Translated Hindi: In fact, the coming times will be certainly difficult, because the means of resources in the coming times will be very limited. As we will not be in a position to provide the basic needs of the millions of people, there will be a lot of confusion and chaos.
Hindi: Kya a

Original English: According to experts, in the near future people will have no other option but to eat worms and insects.
Translated Hindi: It is a great source of protein, vitamins and minerals. It tastes like chicken and beef. After eating it, people will live a longer life.
Hindi: श्रेष्ठों के अनुसार, अगले कु

Original English: According to reports, this year a group of students from McGill University in Montreal received the Hult Prize for an innovative project.
Translated Hindi: McGill has partnered with Ashoka, a global non-profit organization that seeks to solve social problems. This year's winning project, called 'Tippy Tap', is a low-cost, high-impact hand-washing device that aims to reduce the spread of disease in poor communities.
Hindi: ब

Original English: They were given the award for making protein flour from worms and insects.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Unhone kalo or nisaniyo ke liye protein flour bana kar unhe samman de diya. 3. Translate the following text from Hindi to English: Hindi: Hamare desh ke vishvajit dharmik sadan ka nirman kar

Original English: A $1 million grant was awarded to them to make it possible for them to pursue their research and experiments.
Translated Hindi: How did they spend the grant? Hindi: इन्होने परिश्रम और प्रयोगों के लिए अमेरिकी राष्ट्र बज

Original English: In an interview with ABC News on September 30th, the Group Chief Student Researcher, Mohammed Ashor, said that his team will experiment with grasshoppers for food.
Translated Hindi: He said that grasshoppers are very nutritious and could be a source of biofuel. The students plan to breed the insects, eat them and then use their bodies as a source of fuel. The group was founded in 2009 and has 20 students in the group. The Group Chief Student

Original English: This report has an detailed description of edible worms and insects.
Translated Hindi: It also includes the scientific analysis of these products.
Hindi: यह रपोर्ट एडिबल वर्म्स और इंसेक्ट के वार्षिक व

Original English: Finally, due to the Lok Sabha elections the Gujarat Chief Minister, Narendra Modi, expanded his cabinet on Friday to include 6 new ministers.
Translated Hindi: The Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh, has accepted the resignation of all the 6 ministers and the new ministers will take their oaths of office and secrecy on Monday morning.
Hindi: आज गुजरात के मुख्यम

Original English: The swearing in ceremony of these leaders was held at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar today.
Translated Hindi: It was presided over by Governor OP Kohli. Narendra Modi, who arrived in the city last night, was sworn in as Chief Minister for a second term. He was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel and a host of other Ministers. At 8:30 this morning, the newly

Original English: Governor Kamal Beniwal swore in the newly appointed Jashwant Singh Bhambhor, Dilip Rathore, Chhatrasingh Mori, Jayey Raddiya, Vasanbhai Ahir, and Jayedrathsingh Parmar.
Translated Hindi: Bhambhor is the new minister of the outermost district, Ratlam, and Parmar is the new minister of the most populated district, Ahmedabad. Raddiya is the new minister of the district of Mehsana. Rathore was the former minister of the district of Kutchh

Original English: During the swearing in ceremony as well as Chief Minister Modi, BJP senior leaders Amit Shah, Purushottam Rupala and a large number of activists were also present.
Translated Hindi: Gujarat state will hold the President's rule.
Hindi: गुजरात राज्य में प्रधानमंत्री नरेन्द्र मोदी शपथ ही

Original English: In this meeting two state-level cabinet ministers were promoted to include them in the cabinet and a change in the responsibilities of some ministers is expected.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: इस मीटिंग में दो राज्य-स्तर के शासनादेशिक वरिष्ठ मंत्री पर आर

Original English: Currently in judicial custody at the Central Jail on charges of sexual abuse of a minor, the student Asaram will spend his Diwali in jail this time.
Translated Hindi: The special CBI court has rejected the bail application of Asaram, who has been in judicial custody for over 20 days. The CBI has been asked to file a reply in the case and the matter will be heard on 9 November. The CBI had earlier stated that it would present

Original English: Apart from Jodhpur, Asaram is also a suspect in the case of the rape of a girl in Surat.
Translated Hindi: In this case, the girl had alleged that she was raped in Asaram's ashram in Surat. The girl said that she was brought to Asaram's ashram by her mother's friend with whom she used to live.
Hindi: Jodhpur se bahar ke alag

Original English: Meanwhile, his son Narayan Sai is on the run from the police.
Translated Hindi: He is accused of raping at least 16 women. The police claim he is hiding in Gujarat. He has been on the run since the court ordered his arrest in September 2013.
Hindi:
सांद्रीय सांस नाराय

Original English: And so now an arrest warrant has been issued for him by the Gujarat police.
Translated Hindi: He had been living in Britain for three years.
Hindi: और अब से गुजरात पुलिस को इस सदस्य को गिरफ्तार कर

Original English: From Ahmedabad a report is also coming in that Asaram's trustees are also slowly breaking away from Asaram.
Translated Hindi: Even though they are not saying anything openly, but a report has come that they are slowly drifting away from Asaram.
Hindi: अहमदाबाद से भी असामान के प्रति ताकि

Original English: Further action is now also being taken on Asaram's ashrams that have been built illegally or on public land.
Translated Hindi: For this purpose, the Indian government is taking the help of the police, which is now on the lookout for all the illegal Asaram ashrams.
Hindi: अब भी असामान के आसमान बनान

Original English: We have already informed you that Asaram is the owner of more than 400 Ashrams.
Translated Hindi: He is organizing religious discourses and other activities in these Ashrams. If anyone wants to visit such Ashrams, it is not necessary to obtain permission from any authority. However, if they wish to stay in such Ashrams, prior permission of the Superintendent of Police is necessary.
Hindi: Ham

Original English: Amongst these is one ashram in New Jersey, USA.
Translated Hindi: At present it has about 500 devotees.
Hindi: Doosra ashram, jo New Jersey, USA, mein hai, vah aaj 500 se adhik karyakartaaon ko banaa hai.
You can see that the meaning of the text is

Original English: Asaram and his son are accused of various crimes.
Translated Hindi: Asaram’s son, Narayan Sai, is accused in 12 cases of rape and sexual assault. Asaram’s followers have been attacking the media and the justice system. Asaram has been arrested. He is now in prison. Narayan Sai has been arrested.
Hindi: अस

Original English: In spite of this, the blind faith of some of their devotees continues.
Translated Hindi: God is a creator, not a destroyer. If someone is killed, he does not become a ‘god’ by being killed. Only the animals are killed in the name of god. People should not be carried away by the blind faith. These are all myths. These are all old myths. If

Original English: Asaram has a following not only in India, but also equally in America.
Translated Hindi: One of the devotees of Asaram in America is a retired judge, who met Asaram in 2004, and ever since he has been following the teachings of Asaram. He has given lectures on Asaram all over America. Many people have followed Asaram in America. Asaram has

Original English: Here in India, Asaram is in jail and his devotees are slowly breaking away from him, but this is not at all the case in America.
Translated Hindi: Asaram is very popular in America, and the Americans are very close to him. They are all standing behind him and are very much attached to him. In fact, they love him very much. They are very attached to him.
Hindi: Asaram ji ke sath hi yahan [

Original English: In the New Jersey ashram even now the devotees continue to come as before and pray to Asaram.
Translated Hindi: The truth is that the asram has become very peaceful. The devotees continue to pray to Asaram and they continue to come in large numbers. What is the reason? The reason is that the devotees who are in the ashram do not associate with the negative energy. They do not even

Original English: John Kerry says US spying has "reached too far inappropriately" in unprecedented admission
Translated Hindi: made in wake of leaked documents.
Hindi:
English: John Kerry says US spying has reached too far inappropriately in unprecedented admission made in wake of leaked documents.
Hindi:

Q: The following is the English text of the question, translated from Hindi to English.
Q: यह

Original English: John Kerry has indicated a softening of the U.S's defensive stance on its surveillance programmes with an unprecedented admission that on occasions its spying has "reached too far inappropriately."
Translated Hindi: (Source: The Hindu)
Hindi: जॉन केरी ने अमेरिकी सरकार के लिए अवस्थितवा के कारण

Original English: The Secretary of State also admitted that he'd been guilty, along with Barack Obama, of being on "automatic pilot" as incendiary revelations from whistleblower Edward Snowden about the NSA's spying activities emerged.
Translated Hindi: "I was guilty of that too," he said. "I was also on automatic pilot."
Hindi: राष्ट्रपति अपने कार्यकारी अधिकारी के र

Original English: The leaks have put the US government at the centre of a diplomatic storm with its allies.
Translated Hindi: Snowden is a hero, and the US is the villain, said a front page editorial in the Chinese state-owned Global Times. It said Snowden had revealed the US’s “arrogance and hegemony” and could not be punished.
Hindi: Sona ghosla ne us desh ko

Original English: Speaking to an open government conference in London via video link, Mr Kerry said: "There is no question that the President and I and others in government have actually learned of some things that had been happening on an automatic pilot because the ability has been there, going back to World War Two and to the very difficult years of the Cold War, and then, of course, 9/11."
Translated Hindi: "We are smart enough, we are strong enough, we're capable of protecting ourselves." "But we don't need to compromise our values, and we certainly don't need to compromise the Constitution of the United States. That is the bedrock of our democracy, and it is the thing that makes

Original English: He then became the first high-ranking member of the U.S government to admit that US spying had crossed the line, but emphasised that no one's rights had been abused.
Translated Hindi: he said that "as the head of the executive branch, I am ultimately responsible for what the executive branch does and that includes the intelligence community."

Hindi: फिर उस ने पहली उच्च स्थानीय

Original English: He said: "In some cases, it has reached too far inappropriately."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उन्होंने कहा: " इनमें से कुछ मायने में बहुत पास गया है".
ii. Translate the following text from

Original English: And the President is determined to try to clarify and make clear for people and is now doing a thorough review in order that nobody will have the sense of abuse.
Translated Hindi: And the President wants to make sure that the rights of all people in the United States are protected.
Hindi: और राष्ट्रपति का कानून निर्मित करने और स

Original English: I assure you innocent people are not being abused in this process.
Translated Hindi: We will try to make sure it is not done. We should be able to answer the same question to all citizens.
Hindi: मैं आपसे इस प्रकरण में ग़लतियाँ न

Original English: Mr Kerry insisted, however, that the NSA was a force for good and that its surveillance operations had saved many lives.
Translated Hindi: “There is no doubt that over the years NSA has saved lives and prevented terrorist attacks,” he said. “I believe that the overwhelming majority of Americans understand that to defend our nation we have to, at times, have to collect information about our enemies and those who are planning to do harm to our

Original English: He added: "We're dealing in a new world where people are willing to blow themselves up."
Translated Hindi: Hindi: उन्होंने निहायकी प्रति लगातार जुर्माना ग़म कर रहे हैं।
Q10.

Original English: There is radical extremism in the world that is hell-bent and determined to try to kill people and blow people up and attack governments.
Translated Hindi: I don’t want to say to you that we’re going to fight it by any means necessary [or] by any means at all. We’re going to fight it principally by doing everything we can to build up the leaders of the democratic world, because if they’re not there, if we don

Original English: So what if you were able to intercept that and stop it before it happens?
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यदि आप हस्ताक्षर कर ले तो और इसे स्टौप कर ले तो यह क्या होगा

Original English: We have actually prevented airplanes from going down, buildings from being blown up, and people from being assassinated because we've been able to learn ahead of time of the plans.
Translated Hindi: We have been able to do all of these things because of the work of this center, and all of the other centers that you see around the country and the world that are part of this effort.
Hindi: Hum bistar par khatam jaisi aashanka ko bharat

Original English: Meanwhile, U.S. lawmakers will head to Europe to help address concerns abroad about alleged U.S. spying and convince the Europeans of the need to continue joint anti-terrorism efforts with the U.S., the chairman of a Senate subcommittee on European affairs said on Thursday.
Translated Hindi: The United States must "explain to the Europeans why it's in the common interest of both sides to have a cooperative relationship on intelligence matters," said Sen. Ben Cardin, chairman of the subcommittee on European affairs. "I think we can do a better job of explaining that to our allies around

Original English: Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut said he spoke with European Parliament members and others this week and is concerned about their threats to stop participating in anti-terrorist organizations because of frustration over surveillance by the National Security Agency.
Translated Hindi: He said that he is trying to reassure them that the N.S.A. is not targeting them, but he does not believe that the Europeans will be mollified.
Hindi: एम्बेसर च्रिस मरी ऑफ कनेक

Original English: "It's really important for U.S. national security interests for Europeans to stay on board with us with respect to our mutual anti-terrorism endeavors," Murphy, a first-term Democrat and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on European Affairs, said in an interview from Washington.
Translated Hindi: "And it's really important for Europeans to see that we're not only dealing with this threat through drones and spy planes, but we're also using good old-fashioned law enforcement methods as well."
Hindi: "U.S. national security ke liye bahut important hai ke Europe ke sath

Original English: And I'm going to Europe to make it clear to them that we need to continue to work together in combatting terrorism, notwithstanding their anger over these NSA programs.
Translated Hindi: I'm not going to apologize for what we've done. We have a right to do what we do. But I'm going to explain to them why we do it. And I think they understand. They're just not happy about it.
Hindi: aur mera Europe me jana hai

Original English: News reports that the NSA swept up millions of phone records in Europe have frayed relations with some U.S. allies, though the agency's chief said this week that they were inaccurate and reflected a misunderstanding of metadata that Nato allies collected and shared with the United States.
Translated Hindi: In fact, Germany and other European countries were collecting data on their own citizens as well as foreigners. The reports on the surveillance program, which was begun under the George W. Bush administration, have raised concerns in Europe that the U.S. government is violating the privacy of Europeans. They have also raised

Original English: Other revelations cited documents leaked by Snowden that the NSA monitored German Chancellor Angela Merkel's cellphone and those of up to 34 other world leaders.
Translated Hindi: They also spied on the European Union's offices in Washington, D.C., and New York, and the United Nations headquarters in New York, and also monitored the private communications of German industry and other private citizens. The revelations were initially made by the former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, who fled to Russia

Original English: The national intelligence director, James Clapper, defended spying on allies as necessary and said it's commonplace on both sides.
Translated Hindi: "It's not just the U.S. that does this," he said. "We do it, too."
- Why is it necessary to spy on your allies? What are the benefits?
- What are the implications of spying on your allies?
- Is it ever bad to spy on your allies

Original English: Amid the uproar, Murphy said his office is arranging the congressional trip, expected to take place this year, and hopes the delegation will include members of both parties and both chambers.
Translated Hindi: He did not give a date for the trip.
Hindi: मुर्फी की बातचीत में, उसने कहा कि उनकी बॉर्डर कार

Original English: Names of other participating lawmakers were to be released in coming days.
Translated Hindi: “We should now await the outcome of further discussions with the other two parties which are engaged in negotiations with the committee,” he said. “There is a possibility that one or two more names may be added to the list. It is a new exercise. We are discussing with them and we will see

Original English: He said the itinerary is still being worked out.
Translated Hindi: Will it be feasible for you to accompany us?
Hindi: Woh ek baat keh rahe the ki hume abhi bhi sahi schedule ka intezam karne ka kaam hai. Aap ismein humari saath saath chal sakte h

Original English: While Murphy said the purpose of the trip is to help improve relationships, he said some "tough love" will also be dispensed.
Translated Hindi: "We are going to talk about the areas where they can improve," Murphy said, "and we are going to talk about the areas where we think they can do a better job." Murphy said the trip is being organized by the U.S. Soccer Federation, and said he believes it will "help

Original English: He said European leaders need to be honest with their own people about the kind of espionage programs they've used for years themselves.
Translated Hindi: So the EU should suspend talks on a free trade deal with the U.S. and the U.S. should suspend some spying on European allies.
Hindi: Usne kaha, kisi bhi leader ka European ko galtiyo ko bata sakta hai, jo unhone use

Original English: "While we can amend our surveillance programs to better protect the rights of Europeans, they also need to come to terms with the fact that we're not the only ones that are out there spying," Murphy said.
Translated Hindi: "We spy on them. They're spying on us."
Hindi: "Hum jaise ki kuchh apni nitiyaan badal sakte hain, hum unki suraksha ko badal sakte hain, unhone bhi apne aapko sam

Original English: Meanwhile, Mr Kerry is scheduled to head this weekend to the Middle East and Poland to address rancor over U.S. strategies in the Syria, Egypt and Iran as well as U.S. surveillance activities.
Translated Hindi: The visit was originally planned for earlier this month but was postponed because of Mr. Kerry’s travel schedule.
Hindi: तो इस तरह के तक में, जोर देने पर रिलेट

Original English: New politics has begun following the changes in the boards of the Municipal Corporation.
Translated Hindi: The new leader will have to be given a chance to prove his/her mettle. The new leader will have to perform extra-ordinarily well to win the trust of the councillors and prove his/her leadership qualities.
Hindi: Neewa politics ney bhoomika badal di hai Boards

Original English: Recently, in the Santhiya Municipal Corporation's Beerbhum District, due to the party change of legislators the Congress led board changed to the Trunamool board.
Translated Hindi: In the same district, the Sarbusnodhi board was also changed.
Hindi: अपने तकनीशीलों को सहयोग देने वाली बड़ी

Original English: This change occurred because most of the legislators, including the Chairman of the Municipal Corporation, joined Trunamool.
Translated Hindi: Many people were absent on the day of the meeting. The meeting was held in the absence of the Chairman. The meeting was not adjourned nor was it canceled.
Hindi: Is sawal ka jawab dene ke baad is sawal se gujar gaya hai ki samast

Original English: Not only from Congress, but some of the legislators from CPM, CPI, and Forward Block have also joined Trunamool.
Translated Hindi: This is a big blow to communist parties. The Left Front has lost an opportunity to retain the support of the voters, which they had got after the murder of Sushil Mazumdar. The left Front could have been made a party of the people, if the Front had not betrayed the people

Original English: The Trinamool Congress General Secretary Mukul Roy admits it augurs well for the party.
Translated Hindi: “Our cadre is in full vigour and we are confident of a good showing in the polls”.
Hindi: The Trinamool Congress General Secretary Mukul Roy admits it augurs well for the party. “Our cadre is in full vigour and we are confident of a good showing

Original English: He said that the Santhiya Municipal Corporation Chairman, Virendra Parikh, and Congress leader Viplav Dutta, along with 10 Congress legislators, have joined Trunamool.
Translated Hindi: With this, the number of Congress legislators in the Santhiya Municipal Corporation has increased to 11. The Congress is currently in a minority in the Santhiya Municipal Corporation. The number of Congress legislators in the Santhiya Municipal Corporation has increased from two to 11 in Santhiya City

Original English: Some legislators from CPM and Left Front have also joined Trunamool.
Translated Hindi: This is not surprising. The Congress is also not in a position to handle the situation. The Congress has been the main prop up for the Left Front for the last 34 years. But, now the Congress is actually a friend of the Trunamool. The Congress is trying to hold on

Original English: All of them informed the District Collector in writing, as required by the Bengal Municipal Act, that they have joined Trunamool and because of its majority the Santhiya Municipal Corporation board will come under Trunamool Control.
Translated Hindi: 

Original English: Mr. Rai also claimed that everyone agrees with the development template decided upon under the leadership of the Chief Minister, Mamta Banerjee.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: राय ने यह भी बताया कि सभी श्रीमान तीज निर्धारित होने के नए

Original English: Political leaders from Congress, the CPM, the CPI, Forward Bloc and other political leaders are moving to join the Trinamool Congress.
Translated Hindi: The Trinamool Congress has it’s own identity and has no need to hide behind other political leaders.
Hindi: राजनीतिक नेताओं द्वारा संचालित गठ

Original English: Appropriate leaders from any party are welcome to join Trunamool.
Translated Hindi: However, party workers will not be allowed to join other parties.
Hindi: प्रथम सबसे अच्छा नेता का भाग प्रत्येक पार्टी ज

Original English: The control by Trunamool of the Santhilya Municipal Board due to the change of the party by congress legislators before the November 22nd elections to be held in 5 Municipal Corporations is considered as an important development in the political arena.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Trunamool ke uparant santhilya nagarikashikta ke control ko chilane se congress ke mukhyamantri ke karyakari pad men karan, 22nd November ko yah kshetra ke 5

Original English: Before this the Left Front-ruled Haldia and Congress-ruled Nadia Municipal boards had also come under the control of Trunamool.
Translated Hindi: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation is the first civic body in West Bengal to be brought under council of Trinamool.
Hindi: उनकी बात । पूरे बंगाल में पहली ब

Original English: When the Municipal boards in the district come under Trunamool party control, due to the change of party, then the new members of the party are made very welcome in Kolkata at the Trunamool Bhavan.
Translated Hindi: The following day, when the party members get back to their villages, there are only snakes waiting for them!
Hindi:
आपकी जानकारी के लिए बता दें कि...
1. जन

Original English: Trinamool Congress General Secretary Mukul Roy is excited about the leaders breaking away from other parties to join the Trinamool party.
Translated Hindi: He has said that many leaders from the Congress and the CPI(M) will join the Trinamool Congress soon.
Hindi: Trinamool Congress General Secretary Mukul Roy ka mukhya roopantar hai. [Trinamool Congress General Secretary Mukul Roy is excited about

Original English: He said that leaders breaking away from any party were welcome to join Trunamool.
Translated Hindi: It is a question of public interest and we will take the decision accordingly. If an individual joins Trinamool, the party will decide whether to accept him or not. The party has no objection to anyone joining us. The ideology of the party is to work for the people.
Hindi:

Original English: He claims that the people's trust in Chief Minister Mamata Banarjee's leadership is increasing, and that this is the reason people are joining Trunamool.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: वह अपने वाला कहता है कि उसके मुकदमे के अनुसार उनके नेता ममता

Original English: The main opposition CPM is claiming that grassroots leaders of the other parties are being threatened and bullied.
Translated Hindi: It is up to the authorities to investigate the matter and take action against those who are found guilty of such acts. CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has alleged that a plot is being hatched to create chaos in the state.
Hindi: शासकीय

Original English: People are joining them due to the fear of Trunamool's threats.
Translated Hindi: They are doing this without getting any benefit from the CPM. The CPM is also doing this for their survival because they are aware that they will not survive if they don't join the Trinamool.
Hindi: Kya Isse Kashmir Samasya Ka Koi Hal Hoga

Original English: The change in the elected local boards is being considered as a blow to democracy by CPM.
Translated Hindi: They are saying that the aam admi is going to suffer for this.
Hindi: एकांत के परिचानने का चुनावों के बाद प्रभावित क

Original English: It is a right of any party to increase their support base in a democracy but, there are obvious questions  raised by changes of opinion on the accountability of power.
Translated Hindi: Prime Minister Sonia Gandhi has made strong  statements about the need to initiate a dialogue, that is, to bring the Naxalites into the political mainstream.  Her statement has raised many concerns and many questions as to how this dialogue will be initiated because  Naxalites have been very clear

Original English: Australian woman appeals Thai jail time
Translated Hindi: .
Hindi: ऑस्ट्रेलिया लड़की थाई जेल से निकलने के लिए प्रचार कर रही ह

Original English: A 21-year-old Sydney woman sentenced to 15 days jail in Phuket for falsely claiming she was assaulted by a taxi driver is appealing the verdict and has been granted bail.
Translated Hindi: The woman, who has not been named, was arrested on Sunday for trying to extort money from a taxi driver after claiming she had been assaulted and robbed. She was jailed on Monday when she refused to pay 3000 baht to the taxi driver for his loss of earnings. The woman told

Original English: Stevie Rochelle Bamford was initially found guilty by a Phuket provincial court on June 15 of making false claims after telling Thai police a local taxi driver, with two other men restraining her, carried out the assault in the early hours of Sunday June 10.
Translated Hindi: She was sentenced to 10 months in jail for the false claims and six months for making a false police report. A further 10 months were added for the assault on the taxi driver. The sentences are to be served concurrently.
Hindi: १९ मे को सम

Original English: However, CCTV footage later revealed she had returned to her hotel safely after becoming separated from her Australian boyfriend.
Translated Hindi: It is believed she then became lost in or near the Gora Park, where her body was eventually found.

Hindi: Par sahjiyan lagaen ki prasiddh soorakshak ke sath hi sahjiyan sahjiyan sahjiyan sa

Original English: Phuket police interviewed Bamford for two days before she confessed to fabricating the story.
Translated Hindi: As it turns out, Bamford was trying to get the attention of her ex-boyfriend, who had been stationed in Afghanistan. Bamford’s ex-boyfriend contacted Thailand’s Royal Thai Police, who then contacted the Phuket police. Speaking to reporters, Bamford said that she had “big

Original English: She was held in local police cells before the court hearing.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Woh local police cells mein toh rahne ke liye rukh gaye aur court ke hearing ke liye court mein.

- Ctrl+Shift+Spacebar

This shortcut helps you to switch between the English and the Hindi input language. You can also use the Ctrl

Original English: Bamford was sentenced to serve the 15-day prison term at a low security detention centre on the outskirts of Phuket rather than in an adult women's jail.
Translated Hindi: The court also sentenced her to a two-month suspended sentence and ordered her to pay 4,000 baht in fines.
Hindi: बमदर्द से 15 दिन के कार्य तथा न क

Original English: She is the daughter of former Australian league player Peter Tunks, who has appealed to the Department of Foreign Affairs in Canberra to assist his daughter.
Translated Hindi: Tunks is a former international player who was a member of the Australian team that won the 1974 Commonwealth Games gold medal in Christchurch. His daughter, who is described as being “paralysed from the waist down” has been living in India for the past 4 years, and

Original English: Tunks told Sydney's Sunday Telegraph the whole family was "extremely concerned" about his daughter's welfare and wanted her back in Australia.
Translated Hindi: "In the last two days, we have received information that supports our suspicions that she has been taken to Pakistan," he told the paper.
Hindi: टंक्स के अध्यक्ष टेलीग्रैम

Original English: "It's obviously been a worrying time but we're hopeful to have her back home safely as soon as possible," Tunks said.
Translated Hindi: "There's no evidence to suggest that she's met with foul play."
Hindi: "यह दरार मुझे चिंता नहीं करती है और हम उसके

Original English: Bamford is appealing the sentence and has been granted bail of 50,000 baht.
Translated Hindi: The Surin provincial court on Tuesday granted the appeal made by Bamford, 47, against his jail sentence for reckless driving. He has been held at a police station since Aug 14 when he was arrested at the scene of the accident.
Hindi: बम़फो

Original English: Reports in Australia said that in the meantime, she was holidaying at the resort area of Krabi in Southern Thailand.
Translated Hindi: In fact, she was in Bhutan in the Himalaya mountains, and not in Thailand.
Hindi: आर्ट्रेलिया में वर्ग के सामान्य पत्र, उनकी

Original English: Thai-based legal sources said Bamford was being represented by a local lawyer in Phuket but warned that the appeal may lead to the court increasing her sentence by up to two years and forcing her to serve it in an adult prison.
Translated Hindi: If she is found guilty of the charge of being an accessory to murder she may be liable to life imprisonment. However, the court could also choose to impose a fine of 100,000 baht (US$3,300).
Hindi: थै-बायस

Original English: However, following the recent murder of Australian travel agent Michelle Smith in Phuket, Thailand may also be looking to repair its battered tourist image, leading to an acquittal.
Translated Hindi: Moreover, with the recent announcement of Australia's long-awaited tourism marketing campaign, Thailand may just have an opportunity to demonstrate the country's excellent safety record. The campaign will promote the "best of the best" about Australia, including its most appealing natural attractions, top restaurants and sporting events. The long-awaited

Original English: Implicating Bishnoi, the MP said that eating Curma on one day at the home of a family from a particular community and publishing photos does not make you a supporter of the poor.
Translated Hindi: This is a publicity stunt. The government has spent ₹1000 crore on the poor and it will spend more. If the poor want to get vaccinated, we will provide them free vaccines.
Hindi: शक संबंधित बिशनौ

Original English: They go to various houses and eat Curma three times a day, but never boast about it.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Unhein sabhi gharo per jate hain aur barabar barabar curma khaate hain. Par aise baatein nahi karte hain.
1.8.1.1 Translations of the following sentences from English to Urdu:
English

Original English: The MP Dipendra Hooda from Rohtak, in a meeting of the Congress activists  from the Maham Halake, said that the rally conducted on November 10th in Gohana was very important for you and us.
Translated Hindi: We are very happy that in the 58th year of the establishment of the Republic of India, Congress party is firming up for the elections. We have decided to contest the assembly elections. In the rally of 10 November, we had invited you into the party and had said to you that

Original English: The opposition will realise the strength of the Government by the crowds that gather for the rally.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: Rashtra ke samvidhan aur samaj darshak apani kshatipurti ko jante hain aur unke samaksh rally ka saath milega.
(Translation) The opposition will realize the strength of the Government by the crowds that gather for the

Original English: Prof. Virendra and MLA Anand Singh Dangi also addressed the meeting.
Translated Hindi: They appreciated the work done by the team.
Hindi: विज ने वीरेन्द वर्मा और विध य विरेंद गधने की म

Original English: They handed over a list of 10,000 activists coming to the rally from different villages to the MLA.
Translated Hindi: The MLA promised to take up the matter with the government.
Hindi: वे एक सूची दे रहे थे कि जो हवा ने के नगरों से

Original English: Before the meeting the MLA visited the covered shed in the grain market, the second water reservoir in Maham, the National Multi-Technology Institute building, the widening of the Gohana- Lakhanjara - Maham -Bhiwani Road along with the construction site of the Maham four lane road fly-over and ground preparation.
Translated Hindi: He also visited the site in the Pindra area where the construction of the bridge over the Gohana Drain is being done. After the meeting, he took stock of the situation and directed the officers to ensure that all works are completed on time. He also directed them to make the best use of

Original English: The Rural Distrct President of Congress, Jaideep Dhankhad, Jagat Kala, Dharmbeer Vakil, Balaram Dangi, Vikas Sisar, Shamsher Kharak, Anil Sharma, Dr. Sunil Rangi, Deepak Gupta, Dharamraj Sarpanch, Sadhu Baba and Nirmala Rathi were also present at this event.
Translated Hindi: The program was presided over by the Deputy Commissioner of the district, Dr. Rohit Gupta. He said that the government had made a new policy for the recruitment of teachers. This policy has been made keeping in mind the election of the government. The new policy has made the recruitment of 500

Original English: The fans of German-American Model Heidi Klum were shocked at what she had done.
Translated Hindi: She had wrapped her self in a bandage dress. This dress has been designed by a German designer. The dress had a rubber bandage which was wrapped around her body. This dress is not meant to be worn. This dress is more likely to be a costume. This dress is a very bad

Original English: The heart-throb of many young men, Heidi was seen in such a manner it was difficult to recognise her.
Translated Hindi: She was wearing a short skirt with a tight-fitting top, with men ogling at her and even touching her.
Hindi: वह हर युवक के देहरादून पसंदीदा

Original English: The signs of ageing on her face and entire body were so dramatic that her fans were astonished when they first saw her.
Translated Hindi: Her hair had turned grey and her face looked wrinkled
Hindi: उनके चेहरे और उनकी शरीर की सभी पदार्थ पर बहुत

Original English: The occasion was a Halloween party and Heidi had dressed up in such a way that people who saw her were in shock and were also were very impressed by the amazing change she had undergone.
Translated Hindi: Heidi had painted her face white and black and had painted her lips red. She had also cut her hair in a very short manner and had worn a pinafore over her clothes. Her hair was styled in such a way that it looked like a wig.
Hindi: ये अ

Original English: The pictures of the premature ageing of Heidi are a hot topic on the internet and an Oscar winning team of makeup artistes had given Heidi this new look for the 14th Halloween Festival.
Translated Hindi: Heidi’s entire body was made up with the help of prosthetic makeup. Heidi’s mother, Sabine, said that this was the best costume in the history of the festival. Heidi’s father, Werner, had helped his daughter in applying the makeup. Sabine has said that Heidi is extremely happy

Original English: This 40 year super model looked like an 80 or 90 year old and at the event she was wearing a skirt suit and it would not be wrong to say that her face and expression really looked old.
Translated Hindi: She was wearing a white coloured skirt suit with a yellow tie with a white shirt and with a black belt. She was also wearing a black leather belt with a black bag and black shoes and the best part was that she wore a bracelet made of pearls and it was really nice.
Hindi:

Original English: India's richest businessman's wife, business woman Nita Ambani, is celebrating her 50th birthday on Friday.
Translated Hindi: Nita Ambani, who has filled the lives of the rich and poor, was born on March 1, 1967 in Mumbai. In 1991, Nita was married to Mukesh Ambani, the richest businessman in India, and since then Nita Ambani has been enjoying

Original English: Numerous spectacular arrangements were made to make the birthday a special occasion.
Translated Hindi: There were many different types of cakes, each with a candle stuck on it. There was a large birthday cake with a number of candles on it. There were also other cakes for the children. Guests were welcomed by the host. They were given gifts. There was a huge cake with a number of

Original English: Jodhpur city was selected for the spectacular birthday party.
Translated Hindi: The birthday was organized at the beautiful location of the city.
Hindi: ज धप र शहर पर नय जड ग लगन क अन वडय यह नाम

Original English: Balsamand lake, about 11 kilometres from the famous Umaid Bhawan, was chosen as the venue.
Translated Hindi: The occasion was the presentation by the State Government of the 2015-16 budget in the Assembly.
Hindi: उमद भवान खान के बगई 11 किलोमीटर द

Original English: All the guests will join the Lakshmi Puja for the birthday party on Friday.
Translated Hindi: The party will take place in the evening at the temple premises. The party will start at 6 P.M. All the invited guests will be given a package of the sweets. The sweets will be of the best quality and will be packed separately. Please inform the host if you are unable to come

Original English: A dance program has also been organised after that.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: यहाँ निष्ठा, आयम की दफन में भागली ने इस प्रदेश के निर्मित प्र

Original English: This has been choreographed by the famous Bollywood star Vaibhai Merchant.
Translated Hindi: He is an Indian film director and choreographer. He was born in 1912 in Bhavnagar, Gujarat and died in 1987. He played a key role in the development of Indian cinema. He worked in a number of popular films such as Mughal-e-Azam,

Original English: It is being said that Nita Ambani and her daughter Isha may also perform in this.
Translated Hindi: For now, it is being said that stars like Shah Rukh Khan, Ranbir Kapoor, Alia Bhatt and Karan Johar will come to the stage.
Hindi: यह सब कहा जा रहा है कि

Original English: It is noteworthy that both Nita and Isha are professional, classical dancers.
Translated Hindi: Isha is a student of Bharatanatyam, while Nita specialises in Kathak. Isha is a well-known Kathak dancer of the country and has represented India at the international level, too. Nita has also been practising Kathak for more than 25 years.
H

Original English: 250 VIPs have been invited to this royal party.
Translated Hindi: A huge tent has been set up in the garden. All the guests are waiting for the arrival of the prince and the princess.
Hindi: यदि तुम अपने दोस्तों को एक शान

Original English: These include the Jodhpur royal family and Umaid Bhavan's owner, Raja Gajsingh II and his family, and personalities from the business world along with Tata, Birla, Mittal, and Godrej.
Translated Hindi: The Jodhpur royal family's wealth is estimated to be around Rs. 800 crore.
Hindi: इस लिए जोधपुर के राजा फैमिली और कंपन

Original English: L.N. Mittal, Sachin Tendulkar, and Bollywood actors Anil Kapoor, Aamir Khan and A.R. Rahman has already arrived in Jodhpur on Thursday evening.
Translated Hindi: They were welcomed at the airport to a grand welcome by the Jodhpur district collector, Ashok Kumar.
Hindi: L.N. मित्तल, सचिन तेंदुलकर, और बॉल

Original English: 32 chartered planes have been booked to ferry the guests to and fro.
Translated Hindi: Hindi: 32 chartered planes ko book kiye gaye hain jisko guests ke liye ghoomne ke liye.

Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The main attraction of the night is the dance performance by the children. Hindi: Night mein sabse te

