It is not as strange as it sounds. A black box is a small electronic device that can be installed in your car. It records information about your driving. You can use the information to find out if you are a good driver and get insurance discounts.
Hindi: आपके
It's called a "traffic detector" and it costs about $1,200 per unit. It senses how many cars are on the road and immediately relays that information to government. The data can then be relayed to a computer, which will tell you the best time to leave for work,
The real-time tracking has been embraced by government officials in at least three states, who say it will help them collect much needed revenue from motorists who have long been able to dodge their fair share of the cost of maintaining roads and bridges. The program, which is being tried out in Oregon and Nevada,
The increased focus on highway safety has led to a debate over the wisdom of building wider roads. The increasing demand for fuel-efficient vehicles has raised the question of whether the government should promote road building or encourage mass transit. The search for a strategy to reduce traffic congestion has spawned proposals for toll roads, high
Hindi: लिबर्टेनियन्स अपने सामुदायिक दलों के साथ अगली बार अपने मह
They want to know who leaked the news that the president is a Muslim. The sudden attention to the president’s religion is a puzzle. After all, he has been president for more than a year, and just recently he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
The answer to the Tea Party’s question is
For example, the National Security Agency is gathering information on Americans' phone calls, and the FBI is using private data brokers to build dossiers on Americans without court orders.
Hindi: अमेरिकी सामाजिक व्यवस
In Ohio, the governor is preparing to sign a bill that would require the state to move to a paper ballot system. That would be a big change for Ohio, which has been using the same electronic voting system since 2005. In California, a bill has been passed that would allow for every
To make this system work, the state will build a system of sensors to track each car’s distance traveled. To calculate the tax, it will also build a system to monitor each car’s odometer. The state will review each car’s odometer readings each year and bill the owner for the miles
They can be fitted to any car and are available through the internet.
Hindi: वर्तमान में कई हजारों वाहनों में ब्लैक बॉक
If the people of this country are allowed to take an interest in politics, there will be an end to corruption and to many other evils in this country. The people will then be able to make intelligent use of their votes. This is the only way in which we can march forward on the path of
"It's a matter of survival. It's a matter of our economy. It's a matter of our way of life."
Hindi: "Karne ko kuchh chaahie nahin, "said Hasan Ikhrata, Southern California Assn. of Governments ke executive director,
We are shifting from the traditional way of calculating the taxes to the Goods & Services Tax (GST) system.
Hindi: हमने कई बदलावों को करना है। हम बहुत
We have the means to do it. We have the money to do it. We have the science to do it. We have the reason to do it. We have the willpower to do it. We have the need to do it. We have the desire to do it. We have the
The fund, which pays for road and bridge construction, is expected to run out of money in August.
Hindi: उच्च संस्थान यातायात धारामा आवश्य
In fact, the country has not consumed as much gasoline since the end of 1996. This is especially true in the months of January and February. As a result, the price of gasoline has dropped 30 percent since the end of 2007. This is the largest two-month decline in
Hindi: बस ९ लीटर पर कॅर ९०० किलो माइलेस करता है।
b. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Sansk
But the rates that dole out the money to pay for transportation projects have increased by 50 percent, to 39.8 cents per gallon. And they're going up again next year.
Hindi: सरकारी टैक्स अब
But they are quick to demand a cut when prices fall.
Hindi: गैस की कीमतों में उछाला जाने पर राजनीतिनों गै
"It's not going to be high enough to deal with the needs in the future." Hindi: "Gas tax bahut sahi nahi hai", said Lee Munnich, a transportation policy expert at the University of Minnesota. "It's not going to be high enough to deal with the
New Jersey is also testing the pay-by-mile system, and a number of other states are also looking into it.
Hindi: उदाहरण: उसके राज्य के अब किसी अन
"There are many reasons for this. Among them, the fact that the EU is the biggest consumer market in the world, and the most attractive for the investments and exports of Indian companies," he said. "The EU is also the largest investor in India, and India is the second largest investor in
Others know it as a road usage charge. In the coming years, it's going to be part of the transportation landscape. A new report released by the Alliance for Transportation Electrification (ATE) and the International Council on Clean Transportation (ICCT) explains what you need to know about road usage
The idea also appeals to the wealthy, who could buy the right to drive in city centres, and to environmentalists, who would like to see the number of cars on the road shrink.
Hindi:
English: The idea of charging for driving in city centres in high traffic times is not new.
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, which calls for a 25% cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and 80% reduction by 2050.
Hindi: कूलर न्यू
"I think the prospects for that are very encouraging," he said. "I think it's the most viable option, and I think you'll see more movement on that in the future."
Hindi: लेकिन रिप बिल शस्ट
They propose that the federal government subsidize the purchase of a special car that would keep track of miles driven and deposit the money in a “road fund.” Drivers would get a tax refund on the money they paid in. In theory, drivers would pay only for the road usage they incurred, so the
"It's a tax that is going to be borne by people who live in California."
Hindi: यह नहीं है एक टैक्स ब्लैक होल जाने के
The service is much more valuable. There is a greater feeling of self-worth and responsibility. People are taking greater responsibility for their own lives. They are more active and involved. You get a sense of the personal growth and development of the service users. They are able to take greater control over their
The report, by Ray LaHood and Mary Peters, called for a pilot project in which drivers would pay tolls for miles driven.
Hindi: यह आगे भी बढ़ाता है कि, दो
When it was approved, I was excited because I had been waiting for this technology for years.
Hindi: यू.सी. सेंटे ने एक वर्ष पूर्व भारत के
The bill’s supporters had argued that it would save the government money by eliminating a time-consuming step in the process of transferring the title of vehicles between buyers and sellers.
Hindi: Par ghar ke dheron sadasyo ne us par sahi samarthan nahi de raha hai
But there is no coordinated national strategy. We still lack a national testing program and we still lack a national contact tracing program. People are confused about what guidelines to follow and they are getting mixed messages from the White House. We need to be guided by science, by data and by truth, not politics
It will be stipulated that the driver is not allowed to use his smartphone at all while he is driving, and it's a crime if he does.
Hindi: Oregon अपने देश के सबसे बड़े अ
Hindi: इन ड्राइवरो ने जल्दी से ट्राफिक मिलिएर तक वह पहला दुर्भाग्य पर
They've given us a lot of great data, and we are working with them to get the pilot data into our system and make sure they have the tools they need to look at the data. The pilot is on a large scale, so they've got the information they need to really dig into the
The city’s Department of Transportation has been conducting an experiment with a pedestrian island that’s decorated in the colors of the rainbow. The island, which sits outside a park in Manhattan, is meant to make the city’s LGBTQ+ community feel more welcome.
Hindi: नई यो
The idea is to install sensors in trucks to measure their position, speed and other factors. The data will be transmitted to an AS/400-based system that will calculate the toll owed by the truck. The driver will pay the toll by swiping his or her credit card through an onboard reader. The
“We’re all talking about it,” said Dr. Bertolini. “We’re trying to figure out what are the implications for our system.” The coalition’s members are putting together guidelines for how to proceed, including how to deal with the transition to a new system. “Do we have to change
But it is a good product. The characters are not strong, but the dialogues are effective. The film lacks a good screenplay, and the second half is a low point. The film has few songs, and all of them are situational. On the whole, Rangrezz is an
This is a violation of the right to privacy, they said. Many Americans are not aware that the government is already gathering information about them.
हिन्दी : नवज़ाहात भारत के ठाणे स
"If we're just going to do the bare minimum to meet federal requirements, we're not going to get the benefits." Hindi: भारत में भू-मानव द्वारा बिग ब्र
They didn’t ask for it. It was something that happened while people were busy in their own lives. It was an accident. It was something that took them by surprise.
Hindi: इस नही था जो लोग चाह
ACLU of Nevada said it will continue to monitor the trial and "keep the public informed of any infringements of privacy."
Hindi: अधयाय में शुरू हुए शिलान्यास से
The State of California has already demonstrated its capacity to create a digital database of hundreds of millions of vehicles that, with only a few simple modifications, could be used to keep a record of every single car owner's comings and goings. The State has also developed a system for identifying drivers who may
The automakers want an answer to the question, “Do I have to provide that technology just because you want to do it?”
Hindi: नवाजो का एक अलग राज्य है जो
"Most people don't understand what is happening inside a data center, especially when it is located in another country," he said. "And that is why it is important." Hindi: आप अगर वह कर सकते तो कहा
True Mileage, which is in talks to sell its product to the state of Missouri, has developed a device that plugs into a car's onboard diagnostics port, which is mandated by the U.S. government and most states, and monitors how fast a vehicle is driven. The company charges states $15
But after the attacks of September 11, 2001, it became clear to the firm that states needed help.
Hindi: Firme ne apne bussiness mein state ka tax ki aur bhi help karna tha. Par September 11, 2001 tak hamare country
It had already built a prototype system that allowed customers to plug in a device that would record their mileage and transmit the data over wireless networks. The company was now trying to find more ways to prove its concept, such as having drivers record their mileage and submit the information to the company. But there was
The devices also have a small compass that records the direction of travel, allowing each vehicle to be tracked in real time. The system is inexpensive and easy to install. “If we can get a cheap system that can be installed on most trucks, we can control the entire country,” Mr. Burd
"But the benefit for us is that we can have more control over them. We can find out who is cheating, so that the driver who is speeding is not afraid. " Morrison said that the group is currently working with the Department of Transportation on a pilot program that uses the app to track speed
But I will tell you that, from the department's perspective, we did not sign off on this, and the department would not approve of the state's decision to move forward with these cuts. In fact, we have continued to raise concerns with the state about the very
Page 9 of
Plus, this is an unnecessary feature for those that already have support for it in their operating systems. Please revert this change.
Hindi: यह एक बहुत कम दर्जे और आसान तरीक
One way is to set up express lanes, which are open to all vehicles but allow faster-moving traffic to pay a toll. Another is to have a highway with at least three lanes in each direction, so drivers can choose a lane that best fits their speed. A third option is to set up a
Choose a device with GPS if you want to track its location
Hindi: Unke liye GPS-enabled device ya GPS-enabled device ke saath chun sakte hain. GPS-enabled device ko chune agar unhe uske location ko track karna hai

Please note: You are
The flat-fee approach certainly has its advantages. It means that everyone pays the same, regardless of how much they drive. In addition, it makes it easier for drivers to budget for the costs of driving. But there are also drawbacks. For example, it doesn’t encourage people to drive less,
They are trying to reinvent the wireless router as a home entertainment hub, with the idea that you can use the device to stream movies or TV shows from the internet to your TV or streaming media player.
Hindi: अन्य जगहों को इ
It would be a digital garage on wheels, equipped with sensors that could detect a parking spot, check its availability and transmit the information to the driver's mobile phone. The idea is to get drivers out of their cars and onto public transit.
Hindi: न्यू यर
"Such opportunities could include the ability to have a guaranteed parking space, discounts on parking fees, priority in queue jumping, discounts on parking fines, and, in some cases, dedicated parking spaces." Hindi: “वाहनीय तो अधिक
They say that the most important question is: How much will it cost?

Hindi: कुछ यात्रा या कल्याण प्लानर्स, आदर्श, कि इस
“It’s really that simple,” said Randy Rentschler, the commission’s spokesman. “The gas tax has not been increased since 1993. It’s only been adjusted for inflation once in that period of time.” If taxes were raised by say 3 cents, that would generate $
These drivers could claim the credit or a rebate against the fee.
Hindi: Ek aisa onetime ya saalik tareeke se yaadgan kaunapan ya ek saalik tareekhe se leva kaunapan ko banaaye gaya ja sakta
"This bill is a better way to go."
Hindi: “Mera kabhi bhi purana android phone chalane ke liye parhez karna nahi hai”, aur mera dusra android phone chalane ke liye parhez karna nahi hai
That is why it is important that we hold a thorough discussion on this.
Hindi: Agar aisa karein toh hunarmand lakho driver ko apne prashanshaon aur samasyaon ka samna karna pad sakta hai. Isliye y
Hindi: Police ne bataya ki uske marne ka raaz uska paani mein girne se tha. 

- Q2. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: उस दिन रात मानव ने
Hindi: पुलिस एक हिन्दी देवनागरी में निम्नलिखित संदर्भ को अनुवाद करें
The investigating officer will be presenting the report in court today. This is the final report. If the accused is found guilty, the court will pronounce the punishment.
Hindi: Police ki final investigation report court mein file kar diya gaya hai. Investigating officer report court mein present karne w
Jahid was a former student of the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore. He was missing since the 20th of this month. On the basis of his mobile phone record, the police had suspected that Jahid may have drowned in the Jhelum river. Jahid’s father, F
His friend had denied the allegations. Then they searched the hotel room and found the mobile in the wardrobe. The friends had not stolen his luggage. His family members and police visited the hotel. They found that a thief has stolen some things and the thief had escaped through the hotel window. Two days later
Saura's address is not available but she has been arrested.
Hindi: वाहनिया ने अपराधी के ईमेल सदस्य के बारे में सेव
After this, they went to the police station and filed a case.
Hindi: बाघन को प्रश्न किया तो उसने कहा कि फोन उनके उस
However, Ruhail’s mother was not at home when the incident happened, so he was asked to stay at home and not go out.
Hindi: रुहैल भी अपना मकान पदशाही प
The river was very turbulent that day and the water was running very fast. I too was there with them. The Jhelum is a very deep river and there are many rocks in it. When Ruhail and Jahid were in the river, they slipped. I was standing on the bank
He was waiting for Jahid on the other side of the river. He smiled and said, “I have already told you that Jahid is a brave boy. He will not be afraid of the water. He has my 10 strength so, he will not be afraid of the water.” Hindi
He was looking for his brother in every place.
Hindi: Jab woh Jahid ko wapis aya to woh nahi the, unke kapde the. Unki behen jaha bhi dekha.
Choose the most appropriate answer.
(a) It was a cloud
When the exam was over, Jahid came and said, ‘You are lucky. I could not find my paper.’
Hindi: Ruhail ne Jahid ki dekhbhal ki, par usne use nahi dekha. Exams ke bad Jahid ne kaha
Once he had left the house and gone out to eat and drink with his friends, he would not return home until very late in the night. He would not take his wife’s permission before going out. He would not even tell her where he was going or for how long.
Hindi: Ph
Hindi: Jahid ne kisi ko bataaya nahin ki woh maara gaya hai. 
- Translate the following text from English to Persian:
English: It is not necessary to tell him the truth. Hindi: Yeh sach hai ki aapko unke liye zar
The police arrested the accused and put him in jail. The police officer who investigated the case was a clever person. He had solved many cases like this before.
Hindi: Police ne court ko bataaya ki Jahid ne andar rah gaye aur postmortem report confirm kar di
The accused was also accused of concealing the fact that the deceased was murdered by his three brothers and his brother-in-law, the accused’s wife’s sister’s husband.
Hindi: लेकिन, रुहैल दरबार के
He has invited the royal families of the region. The Maharaja will be offering a sumptuous feast to all of them. The Maharaja will be serving seven types of rice, eight of lentils, and nine types of vegetables. The Maharaja will be serving nearly one thousand dishes. He
Come and enjoy them and take the kitchen home.
Hindi: यह पालतू नामक प्रसिद्ध व्यंजन ग्रहण करेंगे नवं
Diwali is a time for celebration with sweets, and the festival of lights is incomplete without them. Best Diwali wishes to all!
Hindi: इस दिवाळी आप अपने परिवार से औ
The dinner is priced at INR 1,099 plus taxes per person.
Hindi: धुमकीदार बेनोट की पापड़ के बाद करेगा आपक
Main course consists of variety of breads (both traditional and modern) such as, Naan, Laccha Paratha, Tandoori Roti, Jowar ki Roti, Stuffed Paratha, Poori, Bhatura, Onion Kulcha, and Dosa. Main course dishes
Hindi: राजों के खाने का सबसे अच्छा बिना का खाना जलेबी, समोति हलवा,
CAT stands for: Comfort, Affordability, and Trendiness.
Hindi: Chandan Tyagi aap ka swagat hai CAT ka trendy footwear aur clothing collection ke baare mein. CAT ka matlab: Comfort, Affordability, aur Trendiness (hindi mein).
The exclusive collection was launched by Miss India World 2011 Manasvi Mamgai at a glittering function at the brand outlet in Elante Mall. The evening started with a spectacular performance by the leading ladies of the industry, Deepika Padukone, Sridevi, Sonam Kapoor
The brand’s core values are reliability, durability and innovation. The brand has been offering a wide range of products including shoes, apparel, accessories and electronics at a very competitive price.
Hindi: CAT (Computer Aided Translation) एक ब्रांड है
The brand has a product portfolio of around 50 products in the categories of footwear, clothing and accessories.
Hindi: उसकी शक्तियां अमेरिकी के हर शक्तिया के
It is a beautiful gift that is sure to be appreciated by your recipient.
Hindi: यह दोगुना gift है आपके relatives और loved ones के लिए. यह आपके recipient
This collection has a wide range of styles of shoes. They are very comfortable and easy to walk in. Men and women like this style of shoes because it enhances their feet. It provides support and comfort. It has a very simple and minimalistic design. It is easy to clean and it is durable
All items are well crafted and designed to last. This shoe is available in any size, and the customer has the option of ordering it in any color that they want. The customer can also choose to make the shoe in a size that is not listed on the site. This shoe is available for purchase
The denim material gives more of a casual look to the footwear. You can pair up these shoes with any formal attire to look more elegant. They are available in all sizes and the price range is also reasonable. You can buy them online and get them delivered at your doorsteps. The footwear is very
The collection is inspired by the 1980s, when garments were worn as an extension of a person’s identity, having an emotional connect. It is very casual and comfortable.
Hindi: इस संग्रह में बाईपन ज
The luxury cat carriers are well equipped with the features that provide ease of handling for the owner and comfort for the cat.
Hindi: बिजली, दूसरा है तुम की और लाइफस
English: I want to go to the airport. English: The airport is in the city. English: I can take the bus. English: I can take the train. English: There is a place to eat here. English: There is a phone in front of me. English: There is
The company, which manufactures tyres for a range of vehicles, has been recognized for customer satisfaction in South Asia. MRF is now competing with companies like Michelin, Bridgestone and Goodyear for the overall world title.
Hindi: MRF में निवार
MRF has been awarded the JD Power CSI Award for the tenth time in a row for its product and service quality, for the fiscal year 2012-2013.
Hindi:
चांदीढ़: भारत के सब
The ‘Automotive Innovator of the Year’ is a highly coveted honor, and we are honored that our work has been recognized.
Hindi: सबसे अधिक प्राधिकरण डीजल वाल
We are extremely proud to receive it and to be among the select few who have won it for so many years.
Hindi: यह कैसे क्या कोई कंपनी इन सात सालों के
The new 14 inch size 195/60 R14 fits both 4 and 5 stud bolt wheel rims and is available at MRF Authorised dealerships.
Hindi: इतनी बढ़ी एमआरएफ
The low profile tyres are available in all the major brands like MRF, JK, Apollo, CEAT and TVS. The main advantage of low profile tyres are that it gives a better road grip than other tyres, helps in better handling, reduce fuel consumption and has a longer life.
Hindi
The water purifier was inaugurated by the P.A. to the Chief Minister of Punjab, Mr. Jaspal Singh.
Hindi: दू-गार्ड कंपनी नय नंगल के लो
For this, the association will do its bit.
Hindi: J.K. Kaushik और Khushbu Kaushik द्वारा पाए गए पानी पुरीफायर का उ
He has married her in a private ceremony held in a Milan hotel. The girl is named Francesca Pascale. It is not known if the couple will be shifting to Berlusconi's property in the Lake Como or not.

4. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:

Hindi:
She said that he died in his sleep. The family friend said: "I have spoken with his wife. She confirmed that he is no longer with us. The family is mourning".
You can also use this website to translate your text to Hindi: http://www.englishtohindis
Then he went to the Vatican to attend a Mass for the 90th birthday of Pope John Paul II. They all went to the Sistine Chapel to admire the ceiling and the Last Judgment by Michelangelo.

Hindi: उनका अनुभव के
She soon became his girlfriend and was in a relationship with him for several years. She was later a contestant on the TV show The Island of the Famous, where she was voted off after a few weeks.
Hindi: फ्रांसिस्का को बर
She is the one who has filed so many complaints against Silvio Berlusconi.
Hindi: यही फ्रांसिस्का है जो कि सिल्वियो बेरुज़
The Bunga Bunga Girl, who appeared in the crowd at the wedding, revealed that she has attended the wedding. The Bunga Bunga Girl, who appeared in the crowd at the wedding, revealed that she has attended the wedding.
Hindi: बेर्लущिन
It was a marriage ceremony. It was held in a house, which was decorated beautifully for the occasion. People in large numbers had gathered there to attend the function. The bride and the bridegroom looked very beautiful in their colorful attire. They were well dressed. The bridegroom was wearing a
This is the translation of the letter from Maria Concepcion Polanco to the President of the Civil Registrar General dated July 16, 2015.
Rough translation of the letter from Maria Concepcion Polanco to the President of the Civil Registrar General dated July 16, 2015:
Dear
It was a pious act of a Guru, a learned person. It was a religious act performed to invoke the blessings of God. It was a prayer to the Almighty to remain ever present for his disciples.
Hindi: Ye kuchh bhashan nahin hai. Ye Guru ka ek
The bride was Greta Garbo, the actress. The groom was John Gilbert, also an actor. This was the first and only wedding for both. They divorced 10 years later.
Hindi: Ye shaadi Meherban ki ghar ki chhouti chowki me h
Hindi: Ye kuch aur kuch nahi keh sakte hain.

Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140, 000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage.
She was not invited to the wedding, I know. I told her, I told her so. But she did not want to go. So she is at home. She knows that she is not invited. She knows that. She knows that.
Hindi: Par vah shaadi ke li
(उन्होंने पति-पत्नी को अपने शुभकामनाएं भेज दिए थे) Hindi: वह नवी
It was a wonderful marriage.
Hindi: Wo shaadi is mahine ke 8 ya 9 ko hui hai. Ye bahut hi sundar shaadi thi.
4. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
English: Abhi tak unhone kai baar kaha
He is currently 78 years old and has 3 children, who are in their 30s.
Hindi: वह इस साल बार में 8 महीने के अंतराल प्रव
Hindi: इस बार बेरुलुचिनी ने प्यार की इच्छा उपलब्ध नहीं हुई तो उ
The cold, however, is persisting in the northern parts of the country. Cold and dry northerly winds are blowing over the plains and cold in the north and north-western parts of the country. The maximum temperature is likely to drop by two to three degrees at many places over north India
The cold front moved in from the west and collided with the warm air in the valley. The collision caused the warm air to rise rapidly. As the warm air rose, the air cooled and formed clouds: cumulus clouds. The cumulus clouds grew very tall and thick and eventually released rain and hail
The maximum temperature at Srinagar was recorded at 20.4 degrees, Gulmarg 7.4 degrees, Kargil 6.3 degrees, Pahalgam 9.9 degrees and Leh 7.1 degrees.
Hindi: बर्थर
It was also the highest and had the coldest weather. There was a large river in the valley. It was called the Indus. There was a beautiful mountain range on the other side of the Indus. It was called the Zanskar range. There were many high mountains in the valley
The road leading to the highway has also been submerged. Now, all the vehicles are being taken through the air route. In view of the snow, there was a shortage of food, clothing and medicine in the city.
Hindi: वेदूदिवस के
The transport has been completely blocked. There are no food and medicines available. Please help the people stuck in the pass.
Hindi: जोल डा पास में बड़ा बरसा है। रो
The snow has begun to accumulate in various parts of the Valley. The heavy snowfall has been recorded in the Gulmarg area, which is famous for its ski slopes. The snowfall has been recorded at the Pahalgam area, near the Lidder river. The snowfall is expected
After the brief spell of winter in the past month, the fresh rains will dampen the winter chill, and make way for the spring. Although the spring season is still a month away, but the change in the weather is likely to occur earlier. The temperature in the higher regions have started to increase
More than 30 people have died in different parts of the country due to cold. A thick blanket of fog has been seen in many parts of the country. It has also affected traffic in different parts of the country. In many states, the government has issued an alert to the people to take precautions
Hindi: लोगों को अपने घर में बचना था कि उनको ठंड से बचाया जा सके।
Hindi: मैंने तो बाकी सभी इलेक्ट्रिसिटी के प्रयासों को भी इन इलाकों
The maximum and minimum temperatures in Jammu were 20 and 8.4 degrees Celsius respectively.
Hindi: 1. श्री नगर में शुक्रवार की दिन समय की
Due to the thunderstorm, many parts of the country are also facing problems. The weatherman has warned of more rain, cold and strong winds in different parts of the country. The meteorological department has said that due to the storm, the weather will be cloudy in the plains. The temperature may
A minimum temperature of 13.2 and a maximum temperature of 25.9 degrees Celsius were recorded in Srinagar. Satellite imagery shows a cyclonic circulation over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Low pressure area lies over the north-east Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood. Moist e
The temperature will decrease, but will still be above average. The maximum temperature will be 35 Celsius degrees and the minimum temperature 14 Celsius degrees. There is no possibility of rainfall.
Hindi: According to the weather department, the influence of the western disturbances is declining and the weather will improve by
The temperature during this period is expected to be between 6 and 8 degrees Celsius, with the possibility of rain on the seventh of the month.
Hindi: श्रीनगर उत्तर प्रदेश का दशक
The court stayed the execution of his death penalty in the rape case, but upheld his conviction. He will now be sent to Sabarmati Central Jail in Ahmedabad. The court also set aside the Gujarat High Court's order that had commuted his death sentence to life imprisonment and jailed him for
The media can’t be admonished for doing its duty of reporting a very important case. The media has reported it without being biased or prejudiced. The media coverage is not biased but neutral. The media is not in any way implicated in the crime. It only reported the facts. The media cannot
The judge said that the media had given a lot of importance to the matter and there was nothing wrong in it. The judge said that the media had to report about the matter and the media's reporting of the matter was not objectionable. The judge said that the media's reporting about the matter was
We have to stop them at the source. We have to stop them by denying them the strategy that they are using. We have to stop them by denying them the funding that they are using. We have to stop the people who are paying for these activities.
Hindi: Hum kaise unhe
Asaram Bapu's lawyers said that the media was working with the police to frame Asaram. They said that the media was not carrying out any sort of investigation, despite the fact that the media had the means to do so. Asaram's lawyers said that the media had been spreading lies
But very few have the courage to speak the truth. If you are not speaking the truth, you are speaking a lie. We are journalists. We are not politicians.
Hindi: देश मे रहेगा है तो मेरे
H: वे यहाँ पर विश्वास नहीं कर सकते कि वह अपने सब सबसे अच्छे व्य

Maybe it is, but it is by no means the only one.
Hindi: विभाग के अधिकारियों ने कहा था की यह प्रचार्य
The company has paid the amount of Rs. 39.25 crores to the income tax department as the penalty.
Hindi: अधीनस्थ ग्रुप के नियंत्रक अधीनस्थ
That amount was to be used to meet the expenses of the temple.
Hindi: Is tarah se usne jama kar rakhi TDS ki amount. Uski yahi amount temple ke expenses ke liye sambandhit thi.
(6) Translate the following text from English to
During the raid, several documents pertaining to the company were found. A lot of information regarding the company’s work was also found. These documents contained all the details regarding the company’s accounts. The company’s accounts were found to be fake. The company’s bank accounts were also found to be fake.
It is a matter of great concern that businessmen today have such an approach towards their duties.
Hindi: यह गरज विभाग में इस ग्रुप की जाँच ने यह
The survey found that the group was involved in the business of scrap collection and had a turnover of Rs. 1.5 crore, but did not file the returns.
Hindi: इसलिये टीडीएस टीडी
Such raid was carried out by the Income Tax Department.
Hindi: Income Tax Department ne 15 din pahli aayi waqt mall ke directors ki group ki survey aur raid karane ki koshish ki, tabhi tak risk nahi thi ki account kholne ki.
He also told that he will pay the TDS amount as per law after he will receive the notice from the income tax department.
Hindi: ये कर्म एक व्यक्ति के लिए जागरू
He has been summoned by the department on August 3. If there is any discrepancy, he is ready to correct and provide the required documents.
Hindi: Income Tax Department continue to target him and take action. He has summoned by the department on August 3. If is any discrepancy is found
They have also assured that all the details have been explained in the mail sent to you before. The officers have asked me to forward you this mail and help you to proceed with the payment.
Hindi: यह केस में सदस्य ने क
But the most important thing is that they should be healthy and delicious. So if you want to prepare something healthy yet delicious try these healthy desserts.
Hindi: दिवाली होने के बाद आ रही आहार
In order to avoid the sale of such products, it has been decided to set up a centralised laboratory for milk testing in each state. This laboratory will be used for the analysis of milk and its products which are sold by the milk unions in the state.
Hindi: Yah parinam hai
The reason is the competition among the manufacturers and the retailers.
Hindi: उच्चे-आकाशी व रंगों के देशे के लिए खात्म के
It has ordered the closure of 15 factories in Mumbai and Nagpur and has seized 4000 kg of mixtures containing artificial milk, cashew nut and shredded coconut.
Hindi: भारतीय चीनिक आयुर्व
The goods were not sold under the mark of the sanctioned milk brand and were being sold at an extremely low price.
Hindi: इस परीक्षाओं में बजाय से आता है की स
Fake milk is made by mixing non-dairy creamers and starches with water to increase its fat content.
Hindi: भरते दशा के बढ़ते मशीनरी विक्रय क
An enquiry was launched and the suspects were arrested.
Hindi: वर्ष 2010 में नगपुर में एवं उपज में बिना शुद्धत
Our train leaves at 8.00 pm tonight.
Hindi: 1. नगरगारेगारावारतालापरबहुरुपरगारेगारावार
It was said that this milk was being processed by the two accused into curd, ghee and other dairy products and sold in the market.
Hindi: शिकायतों के पुराने बाद विभाग
i.e. Milk is not getting sold because the milkmen are afraid of legal action.
Hindi: Kaun ko milk solids claim karne se rokta hai? Kyonki yeh legal action ke dar se kaam nahin chalta.
(Based on: http://www.
It was located at the bottom of a box (which was full of clothes) in the corner of the room.
Hindi: Yeh department ne khaas (khas) kiya hai ki yeh kisi ke naam nahin tha. Iska location yeh tha ki box ke
In another raid, the department recovered Kiran sweets worth Rs.4 thousand.
Hindi: इकाई जितेन्द्र कॅटरर्स की वेबसाइट पर निरी
Sodium Hydro-sulphate is a strong base. It can be dissolved in water. If it is added to the chum chum, it will dissolve the chum chum. For this reason, the chum chum does not dissolve in water quickly. The chum chum remains
Please make the payment and collect the report.
Hindi: एक प्रदर्शन है लेबोरेटरी पर भेजा है। आप प्रति प्रदर
The department has seized nearly 15000 kgs of chemical based desserts and 7000 kgs of substandard or counterfeit milk solids from the market since the campaign was launched. The concerned department has been asked to take strict action against the offenders.
Hindi: ताज व
One of the three teams of the officials on the spot will continuously monitor the situation and will also keep an eye on the shops selling fireworks. The department has demanded that the district magistrates be asked to implement this scheme as strictly as possible. The department has asked the state government to take the necessary precautions
There is no cure for it. The treatment of this disease is very expensive.
Hindi: Yeh sabko ninda karne wala hain. Isake ilaaj ke liye bahut saaman ki zarurat padegi.
To translate the above Hindi text into English,
They are to use ghee for frying.
Hindi: Ek kisam ke katte ghee ke sath milk aur milk solids ki kheti karne ke liye department ne trade-man ko kaha hai. Dessert mein milk aur milk solids ka istemal karte hue
The department has cautioned that it will take stringent action against those involved in this illegal practice.
Hindi: Departmental appeal hai ki public ke paas yeh toh avasar hai koee dhandha ke liye sarkar ke sath pehle hi bech jana.
They presented him with shawls and 'ladoos' and said that they would ensure that he becomes the chief minister.
Hindi: 42 चुनाव के हमारे राज्‍य भर के व
He is not at all happy with the government's performance. He is not able to run the government properly. The government is run by bureaucrats. He is not able to make any progress. He is feeling powerless and helpless. There is no progress in his government. He is not able to fulfil his
The BJP held a rally at Gandhi Maidan and addressed the rally.
Hindi: तोर वायुमन एक अभि करन क अभि के पर हो गए यह ए
It is even more interesting to note that the first bomb was discovered near the stage and Narendra Modi's chopper was parked right next to it. The chopper exploded but Narendra Modi was not present there at the time. The second bomb was discovered near a drain and the third was discovered near a canal
The then State Home Minister, Shivraj Patil, had failed to take any steps to prevent such an attack.
Hindi: भोजन में भारतीय मुहाज़हद आतंकव
The injured are being treated in the hospitals.
Hindi: उतारों कुछ बच्चे और एक लड़का गिर सकते थे जिसन
They are all heroes. They are all saints. They are all great sons of the motherland.
In the above paragraph, the word ‘they’ refers to:
(a) the BJP (b) all the people (c) all the heroes (d) martyrs
Solutions:
1.
They were so happy that they were even seen dancing in the streets. The local leaders in the village came out with a new slogan for the party. They said that the party is the only hope for the youth.
Hindi: उर । तर गय प
We believe that by doing this she will be freed from her previous life and will be able to live in peace.
Hindi: Unakon ki shahadat ko patna me ganga ghat par baitha liya gaya hai. hamari ye iccha hai ki use
They visited the same places and stayed in the same hotels.
Hindi: कल यह महत्त्व क ृष्ट फुर सराहन ट यार शरण या मह
He is a man of great skill, and his election as Prime Minister is a great victory for the modernist and progressive forces of this land.
Hindi: इससे बड़ा गहरा भारत के ख़
Hindi: वह वेरान ब्लास्ट के लड़के ट पे आयेगा और उनके परिवारों के साथ
This is the first time any minister has made a personal visit to the state after the incident. Hindi: इस बार मैं ने शिव संहिता के लिए देश में श
The Congress will present it this time. The Congress has announced ₹1,400 crore for this.
Hindi: BJP ne is bat ka yaad rakha hai ki yah samman ₹ 2,000 crore tak pahunchane ki badi samasya hai. Is pah
It’s a great opportunity for the Indian team to revive their fortunes after their disastrous performance in the three-match Test series. They have the advantage of playing at home ground and they can rely on the crowd to make the difference.
Hindi: महदक्षर पर हर
It was a day of massive runs and a day of records, and the day was made perfect by the captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who achieved a personal milestone by scoring his 5th ODI century.
Hindi: रैन्स ने दो
In this series the bowlers have done a great job but the batsmen have not been consistent. The last set of matches against South Africa was a big disappointment for the Indian team. The new batsmen should take a leaf out of the book of Yuvraj Singh and Virat Kohli and
India has one of the best batting line-ups in the world and the most dependable one as well. India has a great batting in all the positions. Every player in the top order has scored runs in the last series and the role of the middle order has been well complemented by the top order bats
Sri Lanka's spinners will have to take care of these three players, who can be explosive when they are hitting. The team has a good batting order and its bowling attack, led by Ravichandran Ashwin, is also good. The loss of the first match is a big setback for
But, then, the second wicket pair could not take the advantage of the openers’ partnership. Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan have been the most successful batsmen of the team India. They have been in a great form since the beginning of the tournament. The openers have
It worked wonders for the team. He was given the responsibility to captain the side in T20Is. He did everything right to prove himself. He was given a chance to open in limited overs and he grabbed the opportunity with both hands. He was given the responsibilities of leading the team in Tests,
He has already scored double centuries in ODI and Test matches.
Hindi: विराट नंबर ३ पर अभी तक बहुत अच्छी प्रदर्श
Sachin is arguably the best batsman we have produced, but according to a lot of experts, he is not better than Lara. And Lara is not just one of the best batsmen, he is the best batsman in the world.
Hindi: बहुत कई
He has also lead his team to victory in all the 4 test matches that he played this year.

Hindi: वरत की इस नवंबर के आगामी चौथे वर
He has hit 11 sixes and 12 fours in the 12 innings he has played in the IPL.
Hindi:
English: While chasing a target his average is above 80 and he has emerged as a excellent finisher. He has hit 11 sixes and 12 fours in
This is the view of the coach of the Indian cricket team Duncan Fletcher. He believes that in the next ODI series against New Zealand and the upcoming test series against South Africa, the team should have a high level of cohesion.
Hindi: भारत के रिं
Sachin and Virat played very well. Rohit scored fifty runs.
Hindi: र आ और य वर ज न ल क ब र म ख ल क त ल क ब र क प र
He was dropped from the team
Hindi: युवराज परीक्षा के दो मैचों में अपना आकर्षण नहीं ब
! Hindi: यहाँ उसके लिए विश्व के बंगलौर में एक दूसरे दिन के खेल की
He is batting in every match. This is a good sign.
Hindi: अमेरिका की टीम के बल्लेबाजों में खीज जो बल्ल
The first test is scheduled to be played from November 23rd at the Gabba in Brisbane. The second test is scheduled for the Melbourne Cricket Ground from December 26th. It is hoped the he will be available for the third test at the Sydney Cricket Ground from January 7th 202
It stayed in the game despite losing six wickets in the first innings. The way they played in the second innings was remarkable. South Africa had a target of 465. They lost their first six wickets in the first session itself. It was all over when Australia lost the seventh wicket.
Watson scored a century in the first match while Maxwell and Voges hit half-centuries. Faulkner impressed everyone with his all-round performance in the final ODI and was declared Player of the Match. He took two wickets and scored 53 runs.
Hindi: बेली
Finch impressed in the final match, hitting 42 from 24 balls.
Hindi: थाई कोकरोलेशन के आगे फाइल ह्यूग एन्ड ईरॉ
Johnson was the leading bowler in the 2007 World Cup with 26 wickets, but he is out with a thigh strain. Australia, the 1999 World Cup champions, are led by Ricky Ponting, who led the team to victory in 2003. They will not have
English: Johnson, जो साले अभी तक विराट के सीरीज में अच्छी प्रफॉर्मेंस कर र
He said that in the past Pakistan was trying to push in terrorists into the country through infiltration routes but now they are trying to do the same through the sea. Singh said that with the launch of operation ‘Sarvatra’ in Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan has lost all its hopes of infiltration
He said Pakistan had also sent 200 terrorists to Kashmir in the past seven months to disturb peace and law and order, which has been thwarted by the counter-terrorism operations launched by the security forces. Pakistan is also trying to create unrest in the region through its agents. The Prime Minister said Pakistani agencies
It is a fact that what we want is peace but what they want is war.
Hindi: Aise hai ki unhone yahan se bhalai ki parwah karne ke liye koi bhi koshish nahi ki.
Yahan par hamare liye b
In the midst of Kashmir’s unrest, Pakistan has been more troubling.
Hindi: अपार अस्तित्व के ट ना से उत्तरी जम्मू काश्मी
The most significant development in this connection was the Pakistan Army's decision to be part of the anti-terrorism campaign in the wake of the Peshawar school terror attack. The Pakistani Army's decision is an indication of the growing strength of the terrorists.
Hindi: Pakistan Sarkar ke liye b
The project is being completed in the interest of the two countries and the region. It will also help in the development of industry and agriculture.
Hindi: भारत को आतंकी होने पर बढ़ा ब
To divert attention from the failure of politics, the government is trying to provoke the people. The government and the RSS are hand in glove in this attack on the country. The BJP and the RSS are synonymous. It is the RSS which is behind the present attack. It is the RSS which has created
He said that if he had come to power in the state he would have taken such a step. The Chief Minister said that the law and order situation in Gujarat has deteriorated in the last one year and the state government has failed to check it. He said that the state government should have taken up
Hindi: Isse hindu sena ke antijatiyatta ko badhava dene mai madad mili.
You can read the exact translation on many online translators. The translation is correct, but the appropriate label is "abettor". "Abet" means to
He said that such statements were causing the enemy to get encouraged and it was also causing the morale of the security forces to go down. Further he said that the enemy was already weak and they were not in a position to face the Indian forces and the media should not give them any help. He said
Hindi: Snowdin ko German se "cooperate" karna ready hai US surveillance ke baare mein.

share|improve this question

edited Apr 15 at 13:45

Rupam
3,115733

asked Apr 14 at 1:39
Snowden, the former intelligence officer who leaked secret documents about the NSA, said that he would be prepared to testify before the German Bundestag (parliament) so long as he was given full immunity from prosecution. In advance of a major hearing on NSA surveillance, Snowden wrote in a letter addressed to
The meeting took place in Moscow and was organized by WikiLeaks, which is publishing documents provided by Snowden.
Hindi: जर्मनी के दो वेतनमान नेता डायरा हंस-क्र
Higher education, he said, is a "right for all" and "the world is a better place because of the efforts of whistleblowers".
Hindi: एम. एस्नड़न ने बर्लिन में
If you speak the truth and it hurts someone, the person should forgive you and not file a complaint.
Hindi: हार्दिक बात दिखाने मानना नहीं क्राइम. य
The US administration has said it will charge Mr Snowden with espionage if he returns to the United States. The former US National Security Agency (NSA) contractor is believed to be hiding in Russia, where he has temporary asylum. Mr Snowden is wanted in the US for leaking top-secret information about the NSA
The two former employees of the Chinese firm, one of whom worked for a decade at Google, are suspected of taking trade secrets from the company.
Hindi: ये माहौल में अमेरिकी जस्टिस
He added: "We have not made any final decisions, but we are working on it."
Hindi: Hans-Peter Friedrich, जर्मन स्वतंत्रता विभाग के मंत्री, जो
Speaking at the annual convention of the Social Democrats this weekend, Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle said that the claims were "a bad date" and that he would "like to forget it". Westerwelle said that the allegations were "serious" and warned that trust "has been seriously
The parliamentary committee is due to meet Mr Snowden's lawyer on Tuesday, according to the Bild newspaper. Mr Snowden, who leaked classified documents about US surveillance programmes, has been in limbo in Russia since arriving there from Hong Kong in June.
Hindi: थॉमस अप
The two men sat together on the balcony of the Moscow hotel where Mr Snowden has been based since he arrived in Russia from Hong Kong in June, and where he is currently staying in the transit zone of Sheremetyevo airport.
Hindi: Mr. Ströbele, MP of the
Hindi: वह र ष्ट्र म त्र करने व ल द व ड जरनल स म सद शक र तल पर च श श क र
The lawyer had said that Snowden could, however, leave Russia via a third country. The fact that he was not sure if he could leave Russia was, in the lawyer's view, not evidence that he was not free in Russia or that he could not leave. Mr Ströbele had no
"He has no assurance that he would not be extradited to the US, be held under prison conditions and tortured," he said. "If he were to be extradited, he would be held at a facility where he could not communicate or have access to any legal documents, and would be held
He said he had no choice but to leak the information in 2013.
Hindi: इस पुस्तके में आइए अंग्रेजी और हिंदी भाष
He added: "I understand that it has been misinterpreted as a protest against the Indian government… I also regret that it has led to an unnecessary controversy in the media and elsewhere." Hindi:
यहाँ वह बोला कि उसने
It is a public service because it puts the lie to the false choice for citizens, between security and privacy, one that has been repeatedly pushed by political leaders and the media. The public knows that the choice is false, because the United States government has not been able to point to a single instance in
Hindi: ये पत्र उनके द्वारा उम्रानुसार आसान हो जाने वाले व्यक्तिगत पर
Hindi: फर्ंटइर एयरलाइंस के शर्तों में पासग वाला बजट
Are you happy with your current monthly
This is a $20 increase from their previous charges. Many people are not happy about this new policy, since it is
The low-cost carrier said that starting next year, it will charge $25 for a carry-on bag and $35 for a checked bag. The costs will rise to $100 if you don’t pay in advance. The Denver-based airline said it wants to speed up boarding and make its flights more fuel
If you’ve got a bag, make sure it fits inside the overhead bin or in the seat pocket in front of you. You can check our size guide at aa.com/carryon for details.
Hindi: नए पेट में फील का क
Frontier said it will charge $25 if the fee is paid in advance, $100 if travelers wait to pay until they're at the gate. The airline said it would waive the fee on a case-by-case basis if the passenger was unable to pay. The airline said it would waive the fee on
"Because we know that when we get to the airport, if they're paying for it at the airport it's more costly," O'Malley said.
Hindi: Frontier Airlines का स्पोकेज के अंदर एक ही ध
"We're not like the other guys. Plus, we're looking at ways to do this for free."
Hindi: यहा हमारे पास भी इस से लेना नहीं चाह
As a result, more and more passengers are bringing carry-on luggage on board. This has led to an increase in the amount of carry-on luggage being offered to passengers. Many people have stopped packing their clothes in their checked bags and are now packing them in their carry-on bags. Airlines have reported that
The result is that passengers are often forced to check their bags, even if they have paid extra to avoid it. The airlines say that they are not to blame for the fees. They say that passengers have to realize that the airlines have to make money to keep flying and that the fees only help them
We have to impose a limit on the number of pieces of hand luggage allowed on board, and it is necessary to have some kind of limit on the weight of the luggage.
Hindi: Fees hamesha passengers ke pasandeeda thopare lekar aane ke liye hote
"We want it to be a deterrence to people who want to go out and do things that are dangerous," he said. "It's not for the revenue." He said people who get a DUI and then a second DUI face a higher fee, as well as more jail time. "The
They're willing to pay extra to make sure they get a spot in the overhead bin with their belongings. And guess what? They're willing to pay more for that option.
Hindi (Traditional): हिंदी (आधुनिक): यह
The airline has also slashed its fares by up to 10 percent, and will now charge customers 40 percent less than it did in July for domestic flights.
Hindi: आईडीई का वेबसाइट पर बु
It’s all about where you get in line. This is done with a weighted algorithm based on the flight route, the origin and destination cities, and the number of people on the flight.
Hindi: यह बताता है कि एक द
Frontier will also hold a toll-free number for Frontier passengers to make sure they understand the fee.
Hindi: ओ म ल ए ल के सहयोग के जर रत पर ब र डर ल
Frontier Airlines said it plans to charge $25 each way for the first checked bag and $100 for the second. If a customer books a trip to Europe, the first bag will be free.
Hindi: Frontier Airlines के नवीन यात्रा व
They have found a way to turn a cost into a revenue stream, as they have been throughout the first two decades of deregulation. But now, with soaring fuel prices, a slowing economy and a looming recession, they are finding it harder to make money. They are looking to raise fees to cover
Hindi: वे बोलते हैं कि शहरी भारी पैकेजिंग की सुविधा पैसा होना पड
But a closer examination shows that at many airlines, baggage fees are still less than it costs to fly a plane, meaning that the fees are, in effect, costing the airlines money.
Hindi: वाल्ल बार्गेजी में ब
Neither have global distribution systems (GDSs) such as Amadeus and Sabre, which have been working on the problem. Orbitz, for example, is working to make the fees readily available to travel agents in the U.S. and Canada who use Amadeus and Sabre.
Southwest Airlines followed suit in 2013, and now United Airlines and others are also raising fees.
Hindi: spirit airlines Inc. ne pehle carry-on fee shuru kiya, aur kuch mahine baad Allegiant Air ne bhi shuru kiya. Southwest Airlines ne
He said the airline's new fee is a "direct response" to Wizz Air's $5 fee.
Hindi: एक अन्य एयरलाइन जैसे यही हैं एय
That's small potatoes compared with the millions Delta, American and United collect from passengers who exceed the airline's weight and size restrictions on checked bags. Not only do airlines impose overweight fees, they often charge for oversize bags too.
Hindi: Use the following words and phrases to translate the above text
He said, "You don't have to like it, but it's the right thing to do." The airline charges $2 for the first checked bag, $15 for the second bag, and $25 for each bag beyond that. In addition, passengers can pay $25 for a carry-on
"The check-in staff was so fast and efficient." Hindi: "मैं एकाउंटर की जरूरत नहीं हैं, मेरी कोई भी तो
But it was just a few young people in a rush for the dance floor.
Hindi: Maine socha tha ki gate pe teeth mein haath fadne aur ghar se galiyon se ladai shuru ho jayegi. Par woh sabhi 20s
The only person who showed up at the gate was a woman, who had an infant in one arm, a toddler in the other, and a stroller in tow. The woman looked frantic.
Hindi: उन्होने कहा था कि प्र
Frontier Airlines is also following the $2 charge for coffee, tea, soda, or juice on Spirit Airlines. Frontier Airlines follows the $2 charge for coffee, tea, soda, or juice on Spirit Airlines. Frontier Airlines follows the $2 charge for coffee, tea, soda, or juice on Spirit
Frontier also has a deal where passengers can get a free soda, juice or coffee with a bag of chips or pretzels.
Hindi: फ्रंत र रेसरच के पास कड़ा दबाए
It will not let the rain stay. It will still cut the trees. It will not let them grow back. It will not let the farmer grow crops. It will not let the earth stay. It will not let the rivers stay. It will not let the villages stay. It will not let
The move was part of a broader effort to add fees for items like checked bags and in-flight food.
Hindi: अमेरिका स्वर्गीय व्यापार ने रविवार
The airline says the fee, which is being tested at airports in Denver and Detroit, will be used for customer service, including more call center staff to answer questions about bags, seating and other issues. Frontier customers who buy tickets through third-party websites such as Expedia and Priceline will be charged
With about 80 million ticket sales a year, that’s an annual revenue stream of $800 million to $2 billion for the sellers.
Hindi: Airlines pay online travel sellers such as Orbitz $10 to $25 for each ticket sold. With about 80 million ticket sales a year,
Hindi: इसके अलाबो को भी अनेक विमान निगम अपने द्वारा बेचने का मूल्य
Its new hybrid drive, dubbed Navidi, is an extremely clever invention. It uses a conventional lithium-ion battery pack to help power the electric motor during acceleration and when the car is cruising. But when the driver needs maximum energy, the Navidi system switches to a fuel-efficient, turbocharged direct-in
That meant some customers who paid $1,000 for a round-trip ticket from San Francisco to New York would get just 5,000 miles instead of the 10,000 miles they had before.
Hindi: September 2018 को, एन लाइन
The reason behind such a major drop in the mileage awards is the competition in the industry and the economic condition of the country. The airlines will now award 3 miles per dollar spent on the ticket of the flight. Previously the airlines used to give 5 miles per dollar spent on a ticket.
H
A 500-mile Frontier trip purchased from an online travel agency would earn 125 miles. The number of miles you earn is based on miles flown; it has nothing to do with the class of service you buy.
Hindi: तो, एक 1000 मील
If a traveler purchases a seat assignment from Frontier Airlines, he or she can make changes to his or her seat assignment at any time.
Hindi: यह भी यात्रियों को Frontier साइटपर अपने
It’s in a difficult position. Frontier’s planes are old and small. They’re not as comfortable or as convenient as those of its competitors. Frontier’s ticket prices are too high. Frontier’s costs are higher than those of the competition. The only way for Frontier to stay in business is to make
The $217 million loss in the January-March period was the Indianapolis-based company's first quarterly loss since 2003. The company has been struggling under the weight of a $2.2 billion debt burden, and Republic Airways Holdings Inc. CEO Bryan Bedford said in a statement that "we are
The government's 90 percent stake in the airline is on sale and the government has been looking for a buyer. People familiar with the development say that the government has received a proposal from a foreign airline for Frontier. However, it is not known who is the airline. A few days ago, the
Hindi: एनएसए नेपलेट लूटर नहीं हैं कर रहे हैं, बल्कि आवेदन क
The agency said on its Twitter feed that the problem was caused by a power failure that affected its "network infrastructure." The website was inaccessible for several hours before the agency issued a statement on its Twitter feed. It was unclear what caused the outage or how long it lasted.
Hindi: र
"We remain committed to keeping the American people safe, secure and informed."
Hindi: "एनएसएस.गोव बहुत से समय तक अच्छी स्थित
I've already spoken to the account team.
I'm sorry for the inconvenience caused by the delay.
Hindi: यह काम अब शाम को ही कर दिया जायेगा। मै
The outage was caused by a failure in our payments processing system that was not the result of external attacks.
Hindi: Payment system Processing System failures ke karan outage kiya gaya hai. External attacks ke karan Payment Processing System failure nahi hua.
Paragraph #2
Section #2
However, NSA.com is still available via an alternative location. This isn't the first time the NSA's site has been unavailable; it was briefly pulled offline in April 2014.
Hindi: उपयुक्त समय के पहले
But the new assessment is that the NSA's classified network was infiltrated for at least a week. The source said the hacker group gained access to "limited" information but that no classified documents were accessed. The source said this was the first known breach of the NSA's own classified network. "It
There is no chance that the material will be made public.
Hindi: सुपीछा न प्राप्त है। अन्यायी अपराधी अपने विध
“We assume the NSA will continue to try to spy on people, but we will continue to fight back,” they said. One group named the “AntiSec Movement” also claimed to have released the names of 90,000 US military personnel, on top of the 4.6 million user
By doing so, hacker paralyzes the company and disrupts its business. An application like a bank, hospital, or government agency, can be especially susceptible to a DDoS attack.
Hindi: DDOS attacks are designed to flood a target website with traffic until the servers are overloaded and
Instead, the attacks are meant to create a denial of service condition for the target system, or to flood the internal network with a wide range of unwanted traffic. The attack, which is actually called a ping-of-death attack, sends a 65,536-byte packet to the target system.
Hindi
The allegations of illegal spying, which include monitoring the phone records of millions of Americans, have rocked the intelligence community and led to calls for investigations by Congress, the administration and even the United Nations. The debate, however, has been largely one-sided, with the administration, intelligence officials and some tech companies
But officials said it was a more simple mistake, and that the ship's automatic system to warn of icebergs and other hazards was simply misfiring.
Hindi: उन दशम तस्तो लाभदय व
The story of the Mahabharata was shown in a unique way. The play was based on the Dwaapar yug. The play "Ek aur Dronacharya" was based on the mythological story of Dronacharya's son Ashwathama who was the son
It also highlights how a teacher can be corrupted by the powers of money and position. Thus, the film questions the traditional teaching system of the country that has been in existence for long. The film also shows us the relation and interaction of the teacher with its students and parents.
Hindi: Ye bat
The entire audience appreciated the way the play was presented.
Hindi: महत्त्वपूर्ण निर्माण विभाग के वर्ष के संयुक्त सं
He was a teacher in a college. He was very strict in the matter of punctuality. He was fond of his students. He used to go to the college at 8:30 in the morning and leave at 4:45 in the afternoon. He was always punctual. He was
The songs of the play, choreographed by Nirmal Saini, were a hit. The play was a complete entertainer!
Hindi: यह प्ले निर्मल सैनी की निर्मित
The entire show was a visual spectacle and it was brilliant in its music and light.
Hindi: ट हि टरे ल इटिंग द्वारा एक यु वा कलाकार
These awards were presented by APTA President, Prof. Keshav Malik, Vice President Prof. Ramakant Sharma, General Secretary Prof. Ashok Kumar, Secretary Prof. Vinod Kumar, Treasurer Prof. Satish Kumar and Executive Members Prof. Vinod Kumar, Prof. Sudhir
The award ceremony was held at the function hall of the university. The Principal of the university, Dr. Atul Dwivedi and the Pro- Vice Chancellor, Prof. Shailendra Mishra were also present on this occasion. Speaking on this occasion, Dr. Aslam Jamshedpuri
For the candidates, the program was scheduled for 9.30am to 12.30pm. The program would be concluded with the final examination. The students would be awarded prizes for their performance. A panel of 10 examiners would examine the candidates’ performance.
Hindi: Shri
Hindi: Bombardier ने पाइलेट्स में विकास में नुकसान का अधिकार दिया है
Happy Learning !!
Net profit was $60 million, or 4 cents per share, in the quarter ended Sept. 30, down from $70 million, or 5 cents per share, a year earlier.
Hindi: Canadian plane and train maker Bombardier Inc reported a 15 percent fall in net
The plane was unveiled at a ceremony in Quebec last fall, and is widely expected to be the first new jet in the 100- to 149-seat category to enter commercial service in almost 20 years. When it does, it will compete directly with the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320 families
The government is hoping to complete the testing phase by next year, when it aims to launch the plane for regular service.
Hindi: टेस्ट प्लेन के इरादे फ्लाइट के बाद
The company said it had a net loss of $NZ 12.2 million in its fiscal first quarter, which ended June 30. Results followed a net loss of $NZ 11 million in the same quarter last year. That compares with a
The current share price implies that the company is growing earnings at 20 percent per year for the next couple of years, compared with its long-term growth rate of 10 percent, Doerksen said in a research report.
16. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
हिं
"While we expected some noise in the margin, we were hoping for better. The strength of the U.S. dollar and the slow ramp of the wide body programs largely outweighed the benefits from the cost reduction programs."
Hindi: "अधिक बुरे प
This will be the only new commercial aircraft program to be launched in the coming years. 
Hindi: Hum yeh kahein ki Bombardier ko naye order milegi as test flight proggram moves forward. Ise hi ek nayi commercial aircraft program ki launch h
If no new orders are announced at the Farnborough Air Show in July, we could see a very negative reaction to the stock.
Hindi:
English: The program has not been as successful as the company hoped it would be. We are also concerned about the long-term effects of the program on
It is also hoping its new generation of aircraft will help it reduce overall fuel consumption by 20 per cent and reduce noise by 50 per cent compared with the manufacturer’s existing planes.
Hindi: Bombardier hopes the CSeries aircraft family can catapult it into the low end of a market now
It is expected to enter service before the end of the year.
Hindi: अप्रिल में अंतर्कालीन पहली टेस्ट प्लेन उत्पादन क
Most of the 182 firm orders to date have come from Bombardier.
Hindi: कच्चे नमामियाँ देने वाले बिक्री अपीत या क
Total orders and commitments to date are 4,812 aircraft. We have delivered 1,892 aircraft to 67 customers and operators.
Hindi: भारत: वह अब ৪০৩ समन्धित ऑ
“We’ve got a lot of interest on the table,” he said in an interview at the company’s annual meeting in Montreal. “We’ll be able to close deals by the time the first one is delivered and we’ll reach that target.” “We’re not in a rush,” he said.
The company expects to deliver the first four satellites in 2018, and the entire constellation by 2020.
Hindi: प्रवक्षक्के सहयोग और मीडिया के लिए
"It's not a thorn in our side."
Hindi: "परीक्षा प्लेन अभी तक अपरिमित वक्त नहीं दिखाई
The more you replace your battery, the more it will last.
Hindi: हर उत्पादनकारी इसके अनुसार बिना डाटा फोटो अ
We have done a first flight and we have also done an update period. So, it's been more than 120 days since we have started the project and we have done a first flight, approximately 120 days after the announcement and we are very happy with the progress. There is a lot of
The safe separation from the second stage will occur at the beginning of the two-minute second stage coasting phase. The separation of the third stage is planned for 2 hours 16 minutes 52 seconds after liftoff.
Hindi: Ye sabhi kadam honge flight program mein.
They will be equipped with the LM-100J communication package and a special flight test instrumentation package that includes a full range of sensors, data acquisition, and computer systems necessary to ensure safe flight. The LM-100J, which is based on the C-130J Super Hercules, is a long

However, it did not expect any delays in the development of the aircraft.
Hindi: Bombardier kahata hai, unakee EIS ki shuruvat kee kriyaaee karane kee sthapanaa abhi tak kee jaanch kee
The analyst also noted that the original target of a 'mid' 2014 entry-into-service date is the latest to be pushed back.
Hindi: "यह उच्चतर प्रशिक्षण प्रौद
Excluding items, the company earned 10 cents per share, compared with 10 cents a year earlier. Revenue fell to $3.84 billion from $4.01 billion.
Hindi:
English: The company's strong results were due to a higher demand for new aircrafts and a better
Loss from operations was $10 million and included $5 million of charges related to the previously announced restructuring program. Revenue was $6 million, down 34% from the prior year on lower demand and a weaker euro.
Hindi: Adjusted Earning per share थे अध
However, earnings per share for the quarter took a
dip, falling 9 percent to $1.23 per share from $1.35 per share in the comparable quarter of the previous year. Profit
before tax for the period was up 11 percent at $5.2 billion from
The company, which had 5,600 employees at the end of the second quarter, earned $182 million, or 20 cents per share, in the second quarter. The company’s revenue rose 3.5 percent to $4.55 billion. Last quarter, it reported 16 cents
It said it delivered 59 aircraft in the first half, due to slower deliveries in the second quarter. Boeing also said it delivered 120 commercial planes in the same period, down from 156 a year earlier. The company said it delivered 78 freighters in the first six months, down from
Its average plane order price fell to $136.1 million, from $141.4 million. Boeing now has 3,681 net orders from 12 months ago.
Hindi:
English:
Boeing के बारे में तो कोई
Of this total, $8.6 billion was related to the F-35 joint strike fighter and $16.5 billion was related to the F-22.
Hindi: एसियोएस बैकग्रैंड ड
"Our industrial and automotive businesses continued to record strong organic sales growth. We remain focused on driving commercial and operational excellence, as well as on the execution of strategic projects."
Hindi: “एयरस्पेसे के अंदर, अ
The International Aero Engines, or IAE, a joint venture that makes jet engines. Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies, said that it had sold 261 engines in the quarter. United Technologies also said that it had increased its full-year earnings forecast for the second time.
Hindi:
The company said its commercial aircraft line of business also grew 9 percent to $1.5 billion.
Hindi: बम्बर्डर, वर्ल्ड का ब जले ट्रेनम आय
This increase reflects investments we have made in new equipment and technology. We expect that our transportation backlog will increase as we win new business and as we complete additional projects.
Hindi: ट्रांसपोर्ट यूनिट में आ
These issues have been addressed, and we expect margin improvement to be reflected in the second half of the year.
Hindi:
English: The transportation division's margins were affected by execution issues in a few large contracts. These issues have been addressed, and we expect margin improvement to be reflected in the second
The company said it was working to restore full service to the region.
Hindi: बड़े नेटवर्क इंटरटेनेशन (व्यापारिक न
The shares have lost about a third of their value since the start of the year.
Hindi: बॉमबॉर्ड्रॉयर का शेयर अब तक इस बारे
Results were dragged down by a $78 million charge related to the acquisition of the Brazilian company's Dassault Aviation SA stake and a $44 million loss from the sale of Embraer's stake in Skytech Aviation. Excluding that charge, net income rose to $117 million from $110
We are happy to do it.
Hindi: नये अनुसार जाना गया है वह लोग अपने दिन प्रथम शर
Whenever we find a key to the locker we don't even try to open it. When we come across a door that is closed we don't even try to open it. We don't even try to take a coin lying on the ground. The value of the coin is not so small in our
The morals of the day, the respect for the society take a back seat and we are ready for anything.
Hindi: Par subah uthkar hamari man nahi badalti hai, lekin raat ko uthne ke bad hamare man me kuch badalta h
This research was conducted by collecting data from 5000 different people, those who were married, divorced, single, had a broken relationship, or were widowed. The research conducted clearly revealed that those who are married are better than those who are not married. The reason being that married people have a
On the other hand, those who have to work at night, see the world in a different way. They feel that their work is very important and the whole world depends on them.
Hindi: According to researchers, while we don't have work pressure in the morning we attach importance to moral values
In the first experiment, the researchers asked 25 participants to look at a computer screen for 90 minutes. Half of the participants were told that the screen would be very hot to the touch. The participants who were told that the screen would be hot felt less tired at the end of the experiment than
They were told to keep counting even if the dots changed. They were not surprised when the dots changed, but they were amazed when the dots started to multiply at an amazing rate.

Hindi: वे एक कम्प्यूटर के ड

The amount of money to be given to the participants was greater than the loss they would suffer if they gave a wrong answer.
Hindi: Iske baad participants ko bataya gaya ki agar wrong answer do toh bilkul money dene wala nahi tha or agar right answer do
A large number of people did not do well in the afternoon when the experiment was conducted between 12 and 4.
Hindi: यह अनुभव दो बार के बीच न चिकित
There was a certain pride in winning and the pleasure of making the other person lose that overrode their moral duty to tell the truth. The key is to understand the psychology of the person. That is why Gandhi ji’s writings are so important, because they are written from the perspective of a person
For their study, the researchers invited 68 participants to a laboratory in which the participants were asked to choose between two options. In the first option, participants could choose to earn 20 rupees, but the money would be given to someone else. In the second option, they could earn 40
The study suggests that people tend to be more creative in groups than alone, but only if they feel personally connected to the group and its goals. If they aren't connected to the group, they're just as creative in groups or alone. In the study, 248 participants were asked to complete a
Translation: रोबरी के बाद बंदोबस्ती करने वाले भंडारी बेवजह पिस्तौल
He is in a bad condition due to the loss of blood.
Hindi: Patni ki marne ki wajah se uske mata pita uske hospital me admit karwa rahe the. Vo bahut hi bura halat me the, kyonki khoon ka kho
He was a resident of the same village. He was the only bread earner in his house and was the guardian of his family. He was the only son of his parents and had two sisters.
Hindi: सुंदर स ओ शववत,
The accused was driving a car and overtook him from the wrong side. On seeing the money in his hands, the accused started chasing him and finally pushed him down from his bicycle. The accused then dragged the victim and his money for 10 feet while driving. The victim was crying for help but
The incident took place in the Bhola police station’s jurisdiction. The robbers then fled the scene.
Hindi: भोला-मरही सड़क पर नन दो लड़को ने
They told him to run. He managed to run away. But he was caught by the police and handed over to the mob. The mob pulled him on to the road and set fire to him. He was burnt alive. His body was charred beyond recognition.
Hindi: Sunder ne protest ki
Relatives of the victim alleged that they were being pressurized to withdraw the case. They alleged that the police was not cooperating with them.
Hindi: इस खबर से परिवार और ग्राम में ज
Hindi: न त आप क प स क अभ य र थ क व ध ज र क त क ख ल त ह य त र न त प र व ध
The injured was taken to the government hospital, where he is undergoing treatment.
Hindi: तीन दिन पहले जजवीर, अमजनुलपुर का रहनेवाल
They are investigating a number of cases of kidnapping and molestation reported in the city. The police are also trying to trace the missing children who were kidnapped from the city. The police are investigating the kidnapping and molestation cases reported in the city. The police are also trying to trace the missing children who
The 18-year-old woman had lodged a complaint against the ‘Babbar Akali Dal’ leader in the district police station on January 27. The woman, who hails from the same village as the accused, said that Sumer Singh Yadav had been harassing her for the last one
They began throwing chairs at each other. The police were called. The police arrived and the fight stopped. The hotel employees went home.
Hindi: कहने थे कि बोर्ड के परिवार के लोग
The MP's son slapped him, R.K. Singh fell down. A struggle ensued and R.K. Singh's neck got broken. He was declared dead on arrival at the hospital.
So popular was the Queen, that people had come to see her from far and near. She had to display her skill to them. So she did not mind displaying her skill to her great-grandson. She told him a story of a great king.
Hindi:
When the queen displayed her skill
However, the revolver accidentally discharged and the bullet grazed the youth’s head. The accused rushed to the local police station and surrendered himself.
Hindi: उस समय उस ने कहा कि उसने उस को स
A building was set ablaze.
Hindi: Bhay se utha rahe huye log ro rahe the. Ek rangdari khaak ban gaya.
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1
The police arrested the boy and kept him in the lock up for one or two days. They started an investigation and caught two more boys and arrested them. The police questioned them and finally got information about the murder. They arrested the main culprit. He was convicted and sent to jail for life.
H
The owner of the hotel, Munna Singh, told the police that the accused had come to the hotel on the night of 18 July and stayed in his room. One day later, the hotel owner got to know that the accused had left the hotel without paying the bill of Rs 2,
Anand was sent to jail. He pleaded not guilty. He was tried. He was found guilty. He was sentenced to imprisonment for ten years in Tihar Jail.
Hindi: इस नने थये सरकार ने अन
After the national highway was closed, his hotel was closed for several days, but when it was reopened, the accused started to sort out the problem. The police said that Munna Singh and his henchmen were harassing the shopkeepers for several days. The police said that on Wednesday, according to
He was a 35 year old man and seemed to be middle class. He was wearing a white shirt and blue jeans. He ordered a platter of non-veg food with multiple curries.
Hindi: अनन्द पांडे ने ह
He ordered the staff to release him.
Hindi: उग्रत काम सकती मात्रा के बाद, वह बातों से उग्न पर जाना
He is a drunkard and he is a criminal. He should be punished. Hindi: अनंद ने पीने की वजह से गर्ब पाया. उसने भी हो
It is on the highway connecting the districts of Jaunpur, Sultanpur and Faizabad. It is just 5 kilometers from the famous 15 century Islamic monument of Taj Mahal. It is 20 kilometers away from the Agra Fort.
Hindi: Inspectors ne kaha
for five years.
Hindi: आज राजनीति में आदमी जिसने खेलोर के थाने में देखा और आ
about police movements and his targets. The gangster was arrested from a house near the Shahdara area. He allegedly had 24 cartridges. He was nabbed on Tuesday evening. When he was questioned, he told police that he was working as a courier for Scarbrough, who is based
.
Hindi: इस एक लड़के के सहायक ने उनकी गुप्त ड्रग अभिक्रिया को खुल
for stabbing a 17-year-old girl in the leg with a knife.
You have to write a good translation that is not word-for-word. You have to translate the meaning of the text. You can use a dictionary. You should try to use as many of the words from the text as you
Nick Freeman, who is known as Mr Loophole, was arrested in March 2011 after admitting supplying cocaine to an undercover officer. Freeman, 52, was jailed for drugs supply at the Old Bailey.
Hindi: सुरक्षा का एक उ
His drug habit also led him to steal drugs from the police, his nephew told Birmingham Crown Court.
Hindi: बशरत दित, जो 42 वर्ष की है, आज़ादी
He was also charged with obstruction of justice in connection with another trial. The solicitor, who is 56, was a member of the criminal bar association. The association said it had “terminated” his membership.
Hindi: ये गणनीय सुर
He admitted supplying cocaine to an undercover police officer and was jailed for two years at Preston Crown Court. He had been a partner in the firm since 2005 and was due to become a senior partner this month.
Hindi: विदेशी सर्विस
( 2 ) Hindi: अध्याय की जांचों के अनुसार डिटा ने गोला गुणवत्ता गो
He told the two men that he could use his position to try to get them bail, which he claimed he would do on the grounds that he needed the information to support a claim that their release would endanger his life. He then, between April and August 2011, made eight further attempts to
They were found to be acting suspiciously when officers followed them to a flat in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, where the drugs were discovered.
Hindi: वे में से चार आरोपी गृह जां
A further 40 men, including the two alleged gang leaders, are also under investigation.
Hindi: उनके और 32 अन्य लोगों ने और इस बारे में
. He has been jailed for four years.
Hindi: फ्रीडो, 42, फिर पुराने दशा के आधा अधिकारियों ने
Hindi: आज लिवरपूल क्राउंस कार्ट दिता, जो अभियंता फार्बस सॉलिस
Hindi: Wo shuru se bhagwan ne kaha hai ki humare liye wahin par hi rahenge.

Explanation: humare (our) is the object pronoun in Hindi, while our is the possessive adjective in English.

I hope this article has helped you understand the
Ditta is wanted in connection with a 2006 shooting in Pakistan that left four dead.
Hindi: Iin March 2011, the video was released by the police to show how the appeal was being made to the general public to help the police track the accused.
Read the following paragraphs
The third man, who was wearing a blazer, was also seen walking away with the drugs. Ditta was arrested at his have. He was the second person to be charged in connection with the case.
Hindi: दो दखराते रिय
The grounds staff had been tasked with clearing the snow from the pitch, and Ditta told Scarborough that the job was done. The snow had been cleared from the pitch and the two goalmouths. Scarborough suggested that Ditta should work on the surrounding areas. Ditta, who had been released from
This is a very obvious case of conspiracy. Of course, the crime is not committed by the lawyer but by the prime mover of the conspiracy. The lawyer is an accessory to the crime.
Hindi:
Lawyer: to home to find the drugs and they had nine communications. This is a very
.
Hindi: यह दाखिले के अनुसार डीटा एक आवश्यक उपयोगी आदमी था
Hindi: अभी तक दिता ने धोखा कभी पूछा नहीं था, और बोला था कि इसम
He was also allegedly found to have had an unlicensed pistol in his car.
Hindi (translated by Google): Dita arrested, I took the credit card in the wallet, but they all seized, and hair samples are taken from them. He also allegedly had an unlicensed pistol in the car
He said he worked from home seven days a week and had done so for around eight months. He said he was a sole trader and paid tax on income for his limited company. He said he did not have any employees but did have two part-time assistants who were friends of his wife and helped him
He also called the police to tell them he knew what they knew, the court was told.
Hindi: लेकिन न्यायालय उन्होंने सुना है कि उसक
Hindi: अधिकारी, अनी वाइट बोला: "किसी भी व्यक्ति को अपराध को तो पाप
He and his wife are also accused by a former client of failing to pass on the proceeds of a criminal action.
Hindi: रिपोर्ट आज हमारे देखभाल अधिकारी
In other words, he is a drug dealer providing his own lawyer with drugs, and the lawyer, in turn, is providing a lawyer to the drug dealer. The drug dealer is not only a drug dealer but also a lawyer who provides drugs to his own lawyer. In other words, he is a
But they will have got a fair idea of what he was up to because they would have been able to read between the lines.
Hindi:
Some of his communications will undoubtedly have been legitimate ones because he was their lawyer. But they will have got a fair idea of what he was up to because
In the year 2000, I was the BJP candidate for the general election from the Ernakulam constituency in Kerala. The BJP had allied with the Forward Bloc and the Kerala Congress. The election was a bitterly fought contest. I was in the thick of it all. The election was over
Hindi: वह देशभक्त आवाज का परिचय लेकर बेटे को पुलिस के अनुकूल निरन
It was his duty to protect the law but he was going against it. Law and order are two sides of the same coin. He was breaking the law, but he was not himself on the wrong side of the law. He was not supposed to be the law but he was going against it.
It is for this reason that the Commissioner has initiated an inquiry and that the Chair of the National Crime Agency has asked me to lead an independent review.
Hindi: Kahi bhi rehkar koi bhi client ke upar aisa kar sakte hain, jo Scarborough ke up
Hindi: डिटा कोई गलत करने और बताना चाहती थी: "जब मैं भ्रष्ट या अर
Hindi: लेकिन यहां सुपरवाइजर ली हलस्टेड लैंसिंगशायर ने कहा: “ज
As a result of his criminal activities, he was sentenced to a term of imprisonment.
Hindi: उनका रुस्ता की आयुष्य की मानसिकता उनके ब
They should, as far as possible, conduct their affairs with integrity and be honest in their dealings with others.
Hindi: Advocates जो सर्वप्रथम अच्छे निर्णय लेकर
He has not only tried to protect and aid his friend, he has tried to hide the facts from me and his master. He has no right to call himself a lawyer. He should be ashamed of himself to claim to be a lawyer. He has neither done any justice to his master nor to the
The police and the council will not tolerate the sale and supply of illegal drugs in any form in the town. This is a significant step in the right direction and one that I hope will make people feel safer and more secure in their own homes.
Hindi: लैंसिस
Despite the obstacles and challenges, we will continue to fight to ensure that justice is served to the families of the victims – the men and women who sleep at night with the knowledge that they have done the right thing.
Hindi: यह मामला बेहद
You will be held accountable for the crimes you have committed. You will be made a scapegoat for our failures. You are not the enemy. The terrorists are the enemy. You are our friends. You are our neighbors. We will help you to rebuild your lives and bring you into the fold
Hindi: Scarborough अपने उसकी आवाज़ की ग़लती से बांधने वाले हैरियर, कोकसी
The ringleader of the gang was jailed for 16 years after admitting conspiracy to supply cocaine.
Hindi: अगर आपको यह लेख से जुड़ चुकी हैं त
(sourced from Wikipedia)
Hindi: उनकी वेबसाइट पर डिटा ने कहा है कि वे अपने लाइफ में स
Hindi:

Q7. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The number of Hindus in the world has reached 1.15 billion. In India alone, the number of Hindus is 1 billion.
Hindi:

Q8. Translate the following text from English to Hindi
"The answer, at least in theory, lies in the Constitution itself, which asserts the independence of the judiciary," it said.
Hindi: "यह एक भयानक जगह है, और क़ास
"It is a knee-jerk, ill-informed response to a problem that has been blown out of proportion," he said. "It is a bad law, it is a bad law, it is a bad law," added Kamau. "The government should be advised to withdraw the law before
"Africans want freedom to express themselves in multimedia, in text, in voice and in pictures," he told Reuters. "Africa is the fastest growing telecom market in the world but it's also the most regulated. The client is not the government, the client is the consumer, and they are
"If the president signs this bill, he will sign the death of our party." We have a lot of MPs, and they are all loyal to the party. They will not leave the party even if they are killed. The president should not sign this bill. "The bill is a threat to
The bill also calls for a complete overhaul of the state-run Kenya Broadcasting Corp. and introduces tough new restrictions on foreign ownership of media firms in Kenya. It has been passed on to President Mwai Kibaki for enactment.
Hindi: गधा घोट
The Islamist gunmen killed 67 people in a siege that lasted four days.
Hindi: ने बिल पास करने से पहले वह तीन अवधारणाओं के
The local media had also broadcast footage of the gunman in the aftermath of the attack.
Hindi: के न ड य व बस इट पर एक धरण क �नद रण क � द
Kimaiyo said that the media had been “misinforming the public” by reporting that he had ordered the arrest of the journalists. The Constitution guarantees freedom of the press in Kenya, although the government has sometimes attempted to censor the media.
Hindi: पुलिस अ
Journalists also face up to three years in prison for publishing or broadcasting false news.
Hindi: नई ग़िल व्यवस्था के अनुसार चर्चा विष
The law provides for the arrest of an offender who does not surrender himself to the tribunal and also for the arrest of the guarantor who had signed the bond. The tribunal is empowered to grant bail in the same manner as a court of sessions. The tribunal may also make an order for the release of
This was the testimony of a radio presenter at a public participation meeting held at the Kitale Hotel last Friday to discuss the draft National Communications Policy. The presenter, who requested anonymity, said that the government was suppressing the growth of the media industry by charging exorbitant fines especially on the FM stations.
It said the law would create a chilling effect on freedom of expression.
Hindi: यह भी बोलग्स्पेक्सरू के लिए खूब प्रभाव भ
The recent tragic events in London show the consequences of this:
the police have been emasculated in the face of violent crime, and the government has been less than forthcoming in dealing with the threat from Islamic terror groups.
Hindi: समाचार अखब
"The media's role [is] to watch government officials and other public figures, so that when they do wrong, the people know and are able to hold them accountable." Like many countries, Kenya's media is a reflection of its society. The Kenyan media is dynamic and diverse, with the
In an earlier speech, he had said, "If we leave it to the politicians, we'll have a carbon tax," which would be unfair to rural Queenslanders such as farmers. "The politicians will give us a carbon tax, but the politicians won't have to pay for it," he said
It was a little over a year ago that the MPs saw their monthly allowances, known as a "welfare package", increase by more than 40 per cent. This came at a time when millions of Kenyans had lost their jobs or were struggling to make ends meet. In the wake of
The judges said they needed the money to safeguard their independence from the executive. The government said the pay and pensions of the judges, a small proportion of the bloated civil service, could not be paid without worsening the country’s budget deficit. The government proposed cutting the judges’ salaries by more than a
For her 51st birthday, the woman chose the pink city of Jaipur as her birthday destination. The entire Ambani family, including Nita's daughter Isha, her son Akash, her younger son, Anant, and her sister-in-law, Roopa Jagdale, arrived in
The Indian team's victory was a foregone conclusion from the beginning. However, the match was still interesting as the Indians and Sri Lankans played with a lot of spirit. The Indians were led by Sourav Ganguly, and the Sri Lankans by Mahela Jayawardene. India
and lasted till 11 p.m. His most popular number, Chaiyya Chaiyya, from the movie DDLJ, was a hit with the audience.
Hindi: आ आ. र. रहमन ने 8 ब
As she is in the news, she was welcomed with a bouquet of flowers. She shook hands with the organisers and posed for the cameras. Bollywood film actresses and models wore sarees and danced to Punjabi and Hindi songs. The beauty of the north Indian women was highlighted by the total absence of western
The guests were delighted to see the construction work of Navi Mumbai International Airport in progress.
Hindi: आज पार्टी उम्मीद तय थी कि हमें भूखे
The chartered planes carried no more than 200 passengers at one time. Some of the passengers who could not get seats on the chartered planes were forced to travel on the trains.
Hindi: जड़ौर विमानों की स
The British company, which has been providing the services of the Royal family for 300 years, was paid Rs 37 lakh per month. The Royal Mail also had a special airplane, which they called the 'Royal Flight', but it has been parked at the airport for the last 5 years.
Hindi: सूद ने कहा कि शहर का वस्त्र किसी न किसी देश की तरफ बदली, बराब
It was the responsibility of the government and the private sector to run the city centre. The Haryana government had promised to run the shopping complex in the city centre but had failed to do so.
Hindi: इस के उद्धरण को अ
Hindi: उन्होंने पंचकुला में घर टैक्स उड़ाने से पूर्ण व्यापार का अन
The municipal corporation has not been able to do anything for the city, and people are not even able to get basic work done. Due to the lack of power, the councillors and mayor are not able to do much.
Hindi: बुधवार इस
I only wish one day they will be held accountable for their actions. And you know, even the city council has disrespected the people of this country and the Penangites. They are not listening to the people and have no regard for the people.
They don't have the moral to resign
He said that the real estate mafia is flourishing in the city and the police are doing nothing. Sood said that the state government is totally indifferent towards the problems of the people. He said that the poor of the state are being exploited by the government.
Hindi: Sood ne kaha ki
How much money has been generated in the name of the city. How much public money has been generated in the name of the city. How much money has been generated from the advertisements of the city. How much money has been generated from the advertisements of the city. How much money has been generated from
He said that he will solve this problem within 15 days.
Hindi: V.K. Sood ne kaha hai ki refuse dump ki samasya pe naitikta ki bimari hai. Woh is samasya ke hal karenge 15 din me.
d
People are facing a lot of trouble. There is a lot of water logging in the area. A lot of children are getting sick. The panchayat office, the health centre and the schools have been submerged in water. The water which has leaked into the underground drainage system has entered the houses
The garbage from the Barwala flyover has also been dumped in the Jhuriwala area. The village of Jhuriwala has been used as a dumping ground for the past several years, but no one is paying any attention to the fact that the inhabitants of the area are
Hindi: Vo kahate hain ki healthcare aur educational facilities bahut bhaari hai.
Exercise 2. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: वो कहते हैं कि व्यापार सम
It is a matter of great regret that the railway line, which is to be laid through this district, has been put off indefinitely.
Hindi: ग्रामीण न की फरीका उद्योगो से
, inequality and climate change
Hindi: यून विश्व से गति लगी जरूरत, अमानवता और क्ल र्म च
The UN announced the plans on the eve of the general assembly in New York. It is 12 years since the millennium development goals were agreed.
Hindi: United Nations ने अपराली के समय के तहत जो

The summit is being convened to mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of Nelson Mandela.

Hindi: वे एकांत्व कार्यक्रम में शामिल हो गए थे,
He said the planet faces a crisis of "breathtaking scale and frightening speed" and urged all countries to adopt a global deal that would phase out fossil fuels and severely limit future global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).
Hindi: यह ल
"This is a historic achievement, and I congratulate you."
Hindi: "Mujhe yah shubh prabhav ka lagana hai ki samiti ne jamin ko shramik jamin ke lie apanee sansthaaon ko pradan kiye aur sh
The SDGs will be a universal call to action, addressing the needs of men and women and people of all ages, including the most vulnerable.
Hindi: Ye SDGs, millennium development goals ke antargat humare sarvadhik antarikta ke liye vyaktiyo
I will continue to work with all member states and partners to pursue the implementation of the Rio+20 outcome document “The future we want” with a view to reaching consensus on a draft decision on sustainable development at Rio+20.
Hindi: मैं एक राष
Hindi: Mozambique securty concerns mount as powerful personalities clash

Mozambique securty concerns mount as powerful personalities clash

Mozambique securty concerns mount as powerful personalities clash

Mozambique security concerns mount as powerful personalities clash

Mozambique security concerns mount as
The protestors formed a human chain, holding hands and chanting "We are all one! We are all one! We are all one!" at the same time. The protest was staged by a new anti-corruption campaign group, Muleide, which has been formed to push for greater transparency and an
"We want the government to be stable. We want our economy to be stable. We want a government that can reform the country and set up a more solid legal framework for investors."
Hindi: "Hum paakshid phir chahate hain; hum aaram phir ch
The 37-year-old, who only gave her first name, Silvia, said she had thrown away her work clothes because of the country's uncertain future. "I'm worried. I don't want my children to experience the violence society here has become accustomed to," she said. The violence has
The government has confirmed the deaths of 16 soldiers and one policeman in the last week alone. Renamo claims to have killed 35 government soldiers.
Hindi: दो चीजें हैं कि रैनामो और
But Mozambique's military has been doing well against the group since a peace accord in 1992.
Hindi: रेनंो एक अति विनाशकारी सीटियां थी ज
In 1996, it was banned. It was also involved in the 1998 killing of a political opponent.
Hindi: अगर फिलहाल एक विपक्षी पार्टी थी,
On Thursday, a court in Srinagar sentenced three men to life imprisonment for illegally entering and traveling in the Indian part of Kashmir, a charge that carries the death penalty, and for allegedly being involved in the attack.
Hindi: Analysts believe ki desh me ulpana yaa full
The reserves are in a region where the government has been fighting a 20-year insurgency by rebels who want greater autonomy for the region.
Some Renamo leaders have called for a withdrawal of Frelimo members from the city, and Renamo has also called for the resignation of the governor of the Sofala province, where Beira is located. The unrest has also spread to other cities, including Maputo and Nampula. Ren
In a press release issued on October 19, Renamo says the attack, which also took place in Manica province, was aimed at destabilizing the country’s fragile peace process. The party says its armed wing, the Mozambique National Resistance (Renamo), was forced to retaliate and destroy
"We are not negotiating with the government. We are fighting with the government," Mr Mazanga said. "We're not part of the peace process. We are the peace process."
Up to 2,000 people have been killed in the past two years in Renamo attacks, which the government
The Mozambican army has denied that its soldiers have been attacked. Renamo has denied any attack.
Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: Cuba and the United States have announced that they are restoring diplomatic ties. Cuba also said they will begin talks with the United States to normalize trade
“We have a unique case involving a high [economic] growth rate, but other countries are also growing fast,” he said at the launch of the Mozambique Business Summit in Maputo yesterday. “There has been a lot of speculation about the country’s political stability, but that is not a problem
But he stressed that the government would not bow to any pressure, adding, "If he wants to face us on the battlefield, we'll be there."
Hindi: इन्होंने बताया था कि वह भ
They say they want to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. Nevertheless, the Government will be forced to take a tough line on Renamo. Mozambique’s neighbours are all too ready to get involved in the fight for control of the country.
Words: 1. Both 2. insist
The party’s chief negotiator, Antonio Muchanga, said that was not true. He said Renamo would continue to observe the peace accord as long as the government did. The independent observer who monitors the peace agreement, Peter Duignan, said Renamo’s latest stance was worrying. He said
Frelimo, the former liberation movement which has ruled the country since independence, is accused by its opponents of having abandoned its socialist ideals.
Hindi: उन्होने FT के संवाद द्वारा यह कह
"We are not going to negotiate the terms of our surrender." 
Hindi: "Hum naye shikayat ka nirman karenge. Lekin yeh koan aap iska nirdharan karenge." "Hum aapka sammann k
The latest violence was over the weekend, when a military patrol fired on Indian troops and killed a soldier. India retaliated by firing across the Line of Control, the de facto border. A Pakistani soldier was wounded but the toll was low because the sides have not fought a major battle since 1999
"It's amazing that the two old men are behaving like this when the economy is doing so well."
Hindi: "Ek aurtein aur do dafoos (Guebuza aur Dhlakama) aapas me gir pade hai," kahin Joseph Hanlon, ek
They are not willing to do so. But the reason is that the fundamental problem which has beset the Middle East is not a question of negotiating this or negotiating that. It is the fact that the Arab states are not prepared to accept Israel. The Arab states are not willing to live in a situation
The party has asked for electronic voting, the resignation of the head of the country’s electoral commission, and the participation of foreign observers in the poll. The government has said it will not agree to electronic voting and has not responded to the other demands. It has also said that it will not cancel the
The opposition has been very vocal in its criticism of the government’s attitude towards the press, and has been calling for a free and fair election.
Hindi: प्रधानमंत्री और पार्षद चुनाव
The government has also been accused of having manipulated the crisis to destroy the movement and to demoralize its members.

Hindi: कुछ विचारकों ने इस बदलाव की उपयो
Renamo has a history of electoral fraud and violence, and there are concerns that similar acts will be repeated in this election. You should avoid crowded areas, including polling stations.
Hindi: रेनोमो के वोट कोड अभ
"Mr Guebuza is not a democrat," Mr Mazanga said. "He is a dictator who wants to control everything. Mr Guebuza wants to be president for life," he added.
Hindi: मेजांगा से कहने क
"He wants power and he will not give it up."
Tone: serious
Hindi: "'वह दोस्त विधायक चुनाव, वह दोस्त गणना
Police have launched a search for the attackers, who killed two policemen and wounded a third on 21 January. The government is attempting to negotiate a peace deal with the opposition, but a deadline to reach a deal by 10 February may be missed.
Hindi: Kya Renamo ke saath
On April 7, 2017, 50 illegal miners were killed by police in Moatize, a town in Sofala province. In May 2017, 10 illegal miners died in a landslide in Moatize.

Hindi: जैसे जी
The region, known as the Gorongosa corridor, is home to a large population of wildlife.
Hindi: शुरू करें पर एक हफ्ते के लिए रियो के ल
He did not want to talk about it. “I don’t want to discuss this now,” he said. “At the moment, we are talking about a ceasefire. If the ceasefire holds we will talk about peace. If there is no ceasefire, we will talk about war.” Hindi: कल
"We want to send a message to the world that it is not safe to invest in the country."
Hindi: रैनमोन ने कहा कि वह देश के बारे में इस
He says: "The people are losing faith in the government."
Hindi: instability बाधाओं को होता है, जिन्हें राजनीति, देश की अ
"However, I believe that the most important and the largest part of the responsibility belongs to the people. If we want to change the country, we should try to change our life."
Hindi: "People think the ones responsible for the future of the country are the government and the president, and
Mr Sultuane, 20, said: "We don't want to overthrow the government but we want to see progress. We want to see the government take action." "We are not going to listen to the government until we see progress."
Hindi: ओमर सल
"They just want jobs." Hindi: "कोई रेनामो और फ्रेलिमो पर दिल रखता है और फ्रेलिमो पर
Children should be taught the myths and legends of the world not as "fictitious stories" but as "models for a way of life", an author has said. Neil Philip, a British historian and academic, said that children should be exposed to myths and legends from a young age, and that
The Beauty and the Beast story tell us that love will win in the end, while the same is true of the Cinderella story. In the story of Hercules, we see that heroism is a result of hard work.
Hindi: थोर के कहानीं
He also suggested that children should be taught how to read ancient runes, and that they should be taught "how to write and read runes" so that they can read the poems as they first appeared.
Hindi: Jaise uchcharan ki riti sagar men eezhath ke
"In India, we still have a long way to go."

Q: A woman is a female human being. She is born, grows up, and dies. In between, she does many other things. In her lifetime, she has many roles to play. She is a mother, a wife
It will never be right, for it is against the constitution. It is an undemocratic plan in the first place. It will never be right. I will not agree to it, for it is against the constitution. It is an undemocratic plan in the first place.
Hindi:
Hindi: वे बाल उपदेश और शिक्षकों को मानते हैं कि उन्हें अधिकतर दृ
This is the first time in a decade that the Oxford Dictionary of English has been revised. The last edition, published 10 years ago, has sold 1.2 million copies.
Hindi: Crossley-Holland, jise Anglo-Saxon se Bhagvan Beowulf ko translate kar
Children live in the real world, but they live with the innocence of childhood. Adults live in the real world, but they live with the accumulated wisdom of experience, which can be a sad thing. Hope is a great part of the child’s world, but it can be a difficult thing for an
It is a universal feeling that we all share, something we cannot get rid of. Seeing is believing. Seeing is believing. Seeing is believing. Seeing is believing. Seeing is believing. Seeing is believing.
Hindi: न त आगर य जाती
This is the case in the work of the great dramatists of the world. There was no thesis in Shakespeare, and Yeats was not propagating a creed. They were telling stories that gave expression to the reality of which they were the creative expression. This is the prime task of the artist
Not as good as 
"show don't tell", because the 2nd seems to be a more 
comprehensive way to go about it. But it's a good guideline 
for beginners to use.

Hindi: पिछले बीस सालों क
He is happy as he has not only been able to do something in the police department but also to learn a lot from it.
Hindi: समयदेव सहयोगकर, घूमरबि: स्व
The party was hosted by the Commissioner of Police Sri. N. Srinivas Rao on 27th August 2014 at the Commissioner’s Office. The party began with the lighting of the ceremonial lamp by Sri. N. Srinivas Rao, Commissioner of Police, in the presence of Sri
He was born on 20-07-1978. He was married on 21-10-2010. His wife’s name is Chandra and she is a resident of the same village. They have two daughters, one named Shalu and the other named Sanya. His father’s
He was a dedicated worker.
Hindi: Kisi bhi saal, usne bahut hi acchi kaam kiya hai. Wo kirdaar ko samajhna ka bhi bohot accha tha.
6. Translate the following text into English from Hindi:
Hindi
’s Events, Week of November 1st, 2018
Hindi: बेन ग्रीनमैन: न्यू यॉर्क कॉमेडी फेस्टिवल
(Fay’s style was eventually adopted by the likes of Jack Benny and Bob Hope.) Meanwhile, the Marx Brothers, who were also vaudeville veterans, were creating hilarity on the stage with their satirical lyrics and physical gags. Today, the city is still a hotbed of stand
The festival will celebrate its 10th anniversary this year. Among the headliners are Jon Stewart, Bobby Cannavale and Ray Romano.
Hindi: Fay ka inovashin chalta raha hai, abhi tak iske saath saath New York Comedy Festival ko choose
The festival’s headliner is the provocative comic Dane Cook, who has been called the “King of the One-Liners.”
Hindi: संगीत के लिए बॉलीवुड के उपस्थ
"But they loved it. They were so grateful to be able to come back and show their appreciation and have fun with friends and family."
Hindi: "यहा एक बहुत से टॉप-आगे फ
We knew that they could not come here and we couldn’t go there. So we decided that we would build a festival on the internet. We wanted to do this with a festival that would be a celebration of the stories of the peoples of the world. We wanted to create a festival that would be
The festivities have been extended to a week, and there are now more than 450 free events, from stand-up to roasts to panels, at more than 100 venues across the city.
Hindi: यह वर्ष कामर्दानी
In the early days, Christmas television was dominated by the annual appearance of the Queen. To this day, the 2002 broadcast of The Queen’s Speech is the most-watched programme in British history. Since then, however, viewers have been able to choose from a variety of comedy programmes.
H
This year, for the first time, the festival will add a nontraditional venue to its list, the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival, which will feature stand-up and improv. There will also be exclusive video content, which will be available online and at the festival. There will be over
He plays a number of bizarre characters, including a cartoonish dentist and a mischievous, humping dog. But he's not a one-note actor. Like the rest of his show, "Kroll Show" is a rich, varied tapestry of comedy, with many layers of subtlet
For the first time, the character will get his own picture book. "Marcel the Shell with Shoes On, Two, at the Museum," will be released in October. The book will include a CD in which the character recites the text.
Hindi:
Jenny Slate ने
Comedians used to be geographically bound, the way musicians were. Jeselnik had a weekly show in New York. Bell had to move to Chicago to stand out. The network system has collapsed, and the shows have multiplied. There are hundreds of cable channels. There are more stand-up
They have both appeared in each other's television shows but will be meeting for the first time in 30 years.
Hindi: एक ऑफ ले फस्टिवल के बड़े चरण का
Steinberg’s latest project, the documentary My Favorite Shapes, is an attempt to give an insider’s look at the art of cartooning. The film consists of interviews with some of the biggest names in the field, including Gary Larson, Bill Watterson, and Scott Adams.
Hindi: स
Later, he hosted a series of short comedy vignettes on Comedy Central called "Short Attention Span Theater" from 2009 to 2010.
Hindi: 2005 से 2007 तक उन्होंने टीवी
It begins at 9:30 a.m. and lasts until 11:00 a.m. The town hall is in the middle of a large, modern building. The building has a staircase in the middle of it. The staircase is on the right side of the town hall. The building is
"It's the city we have a lot of affection for. The character is a great opportunity to do a lot of comedy in the city."
Hindi: "शहर लारी की सभी कार्य के लिए ह
I'm not kidding. I've been thinking about that, too.

share|improve this question

edited Nov 6 '11 at 11:05

Shikiryu
6,39552864

asked Nov 5 '11 at 18:34

SMK
on global growth worries
Hindi: पेयजल अंडर 96 डॉलर पर अचानक झटका, दुनिया भर की आय
Crude for October delivery, which expired earlier on Friday, settled down 22 cents at $90.67 a barrel. It has fallen nearly 7 percent this week. The contract will begin trading again on Monday, and the current front-month contract is November. U.S. light, sweet crude
On Monday, the contract rose 69 cents to close at $96.38. Brent crude, which is used to price oil used by many U.S. refineries to make gasoline, was down 25 cents at $111.86 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange in London.
Hindi
The contract is down 16.7 percent from its record high of $147.27 reached on July 11.

Hindi: दस जुलाई को 147.27 तक जुड़ा गया थ
But some analysts are warning that the geopolitical tension in the Middle East could prompt a further surge, as has happened in the past.
Hindi: क्रूड के कारण दिनांक तक का कार्य
That's more than three times the increase analysts expected. In addition, imports climbed. 
Hindi: भारतीय संसाधन से शुरू किया गया है, ये
That is almost half of the total increase in supply over the past year. If it continues, we may see a surplus of 1.5 million barrels a day this year. In March, OPEC's production averaged 28.5 million barrels a day, more than 1 million barrels a
The purchasing managers' indexes for the sector were 51.7 and 51.5, up from 50.9 and 51.1 in July.
Hindi: लेकिन दवारा आज अर्थव
The world's second largest economy grew 7.7 percent in the third quarter.
Hindi: Yeh batata hai ki China ka ek acha ghatna chal rha hai. 3rd quarter me 7.8% ka growth huaa jismein peh
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, light, sweet crude for July delivery fell 80 cents to $97.89 a barrel.
Hindi
अंग्रेजी: ब्रेंट क्रूड, एक म
Hindi: अवधि के सुनवाई से डरे न्यू योर्क एनसीपी द्वारा ओवर डर
The decision by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit - which was announced by the court but not explained in a written opinion - means that the case will be returned to a federal district court judge who had strongly criticized the program in a ruling in August. The
The judge ruled in August that the police department has a policy of unconstitutional stops, searches and arrests and that its top brass condone such actions, depriving minorities of equal protection under the law. The ruling came in a class-action lawsuit filed by a group of black and Hispanic people who said they were
But the judge had delayed implementation of the ruling until the city had a chance to appeal. 
Hindi: न्यायालय की न्यायधीश ने जुलाई में शह
Citing the importance of the matter to the city and the nation, a divided seven member panel of the Ninth Circuit affirmed the district court’s injunction against the department. The panel held that the district court did not abuse its discretion in issuing the injunction, which was issued by the district court in accordance with
The state is seeking a permanent stay.
Hindi: एडरस मशग रहिये इस आसन से अनुरोध वाला अधोरा दर
The judge was removed from the case and the case will now be assigned to a new judge.
Hindi: अंतर्गत ज डज नी का अधीनकारी कोर्ट ने
The judge had also ruled that the city failed to supervise the police department, and had failed to train its officers in the proper use of stop-and-frisk.
Hindi: ये न्यायाधीश ने शकुनियो
The department has also made changes to the way it collects and uses data, creating a centralized database in which all stops are logged and employees are required to enter details on every stop and search.
Hindi: उन्होने एक आउटस
The city in 2014 agreed to pay $75,000 to a man whose name was included in the database, and who was stopped because the officer mistook him for a man on the city’s list of people arrested for the crime of prostitution. The city has since paid $35,000
The city is appealing the lower court's ruling on the grounds that the lower court erred in not applying the common law test for determining whether a party is an employee or independent contractor. The city further argues that the lower court erred in its application of the common law test. The city will amend
Human rights groups have accused the police of racial stereotyping, citing a 2011 study by the Department of Justice that found that black and Hispanic men were the targets of 85 percent of the stops. In 2010, Amadou Diallo, an unarmed black immigrant was shot 41
A federal judge ruled that the policy was unconstitutional and Mayor Bill de Blasio has said he will stop it. Stop-and-frisk is based on the principle that police have a right to stop and question people who look suspicious. The policy has a long history in the United States and has been used by local
Some of the defendants settled, and the case is still in court. The court case alleges that the City has discriminated against minority groups and is violating the equal protections clause of the 14th amendment. The City decided to appeal the lawsuit even though they had lost the case in trial court - because
They say stop-and-frisk has unfairly targeted people of color without proof of a crime. Opponents say the changes will allow criminals to roam the streets without fear of being stopped by police.
Hindi: बाधायुक्तों न्यायप
The changes would also take away the ability of police departments to decide which officers are best suited for their neighborhoods.
Hindi: विरोध करने वाले ने यह बताया है कि ब
He said officers couldn't continue to use the practice "as a pretext to single out certain people for stops."
Hindi: न्यायाधिकारी ने यह बताया है कि कोई
The training was facilitated by Dr. Babita Singh, Dr. Sujata Singh, Ms. Shashi Prabha and Ms. Poonam.
Hindi: गोड़ा, पाकुफ, जमशेदप
Each of them was given a tent to pitch. They were also taken through how to erect a flag pole. The activity was aimed at enhancing their team building, discipline and self confidence.
Hindi: सभ पार ्टिंग वर्िक
They are faculty members of the Department of Economics of the University of Kalyani, West Bengal. Dr. Ashutosh Kumar Roy is a former fellow of the Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) and has been teaching Economics for the last 40 years. He has so far
The function was well attended by the participants and others who
wanted to share in our celebrations. Participants made a New Year’s resolution to continue
praying for one another and for the world. May the Lord bless us with his peace and love
and may God bless all of you. Happy New
He has decided to form a 'Five Day Training Camp' for the training of camp leaders. The program includes administrative training and leadership training. The camp leaders will be trained for a period of five days. The camp will be held in the 'Himalayan Deer Park' and is limited to
-off
Hindi: Coulson phone hacking karne se sahi tip-off verify karne ke liye phone hackin
The allegations were made by former News of the World reporter Sam Wallis, who was called to give evidence at the Old Bailey on Thursday.
Hindi: थाना अपडेट प्रकरण से पूर्व न
The paper asked the Cabinet Office for a "denial" that the pair were dating. No denial was forthcoming, but the Cabinet Office later sent Clarke a "cease and desist" letter informing him that his private life was not a public issue. The MP complained about the letter to the Press
The court heard how he also called and left her a voicemail message, telling her that "David Cameron wanted her number."
Hindi: यह चालान एक व्यक्ति गिल बॉयन
"This is a man who has not been honest with the police, the court and the jury about what he did or did not know about the payments being made to Mr Goodman."
Original:
"Bharti ke manane ka karan yeh hai ki Mr. Coulson, jo ab yahan
He added: “I am absolutely certain that we did not use any unlawful means.”
Hindi: Wo kaha tha ki NotW use stories ko investigate karne ke liye 3 tarike karta tha: phone hacking, surveillance, aur confrontation. Wo bhi bol rahe h
The third is an example of the type of work in which he is involved. The work is not of that type. The work is a good example of the type of work in which he is not involved.
Hindi: आध्यात्मिक त
He's always happy to, you know, come to a party, and, you know, he had a, he had a, he's happy to have, you know, a drink. (0:28-0:49) Hindi: Bhootni ki baat pe, toh
The first was more important than the last. I don't know why I'm telling you all this. I can't imagine why I've been coming here, week after week. This is your business, after all. It's not mine. I've got to go now. I have to go
Hindi: Does he know about phone hacking?
Q.6 Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: उसके नीचे उसके खाने की डंकें रखे ह
He says he doesn't, we say "Oh yes, he did". He says he doesn't, we say "Oh yes, he did". He says he doesn't, we say "Oh yes, he did". He says he doesn't, we say "Oh yes, he did".
Shortly after that, a story appeared in the paper about Clarke's new girlfriend, saying: "He is said to have been seeing Miss Pawlby for months".
Hindi: चार्ल्स के साथ नि: शुल्क
It contained a message from a man purporting to be a lawyer for The Sun who had been instructed to contact Mulcaire about a story. The man told Mulcaire to call him urgently and that there was a problem with the story. Other messages were from the same man telling Mulca
The entries were accompanied by photographs of the two women, their children, and an address that investigators believed to be their mother's home.
Hindi: शिक्षक भी परिवार भ्रष्टाचार अ
He said Ms Pawlby's grandparents, who live in New Zealand, had the calls traced to a nuisance 'phone box, and the police had arrested a 16-year-old boy over the matter. Mr Edis said the calls were made from the phone box, which had no coin slot or
Weatherup told the court he was simply "checking up on her".
Hindi: तब इसके नाम नव्हा थर्लबेक और जैम्स वेत
Hindi: इनके अनुसार, वो जुन 18, 2005 को उनके वोइल बोर्ड पर कहा कि, "मैं
Mr Edis said it was clear from the way he reacted that Coulson knew about the phone hacking.
Hindi: Mr. Edis ne kaha ki Coulsen ki yah story aisi hi thahari hai, jo ki kisi badhazmi vyakti ke sa
Mr Coulson told the jury he had warned Mr Blunkett that he should not get involved in an affair.
Hindi: गोररी दिन को अनुशासन समिति ने कहा थ
They deny conspiring with each other in connection with that offence. They deny conspiring with others to hack phones between January 1 2005 and September 30 2005. They deny conspiring with each other in connection with that offence. They deny conspiring with others to hack phones between
Greg Miskiw has also admitted that he deleted messages from Hunt’s messages.
Hindi: Mulcaire, Thurlbeck aur Weatherup phone hacking ke liye kheti hai. Greg Miskiw bhi Hunt ki message ki delete karne ke liye kheti hai.
Hindi: एनएसआ या फिर आज़ादी प्रदर्शन के बाद, देश वित्तीय व
It was part of a regular patrol that was operating with German police authorities to ensure the safety of the consulate which has been the target of recent terrorist attacks.
Hindi: अक्टूबर के अंतिम सप्ताह म
The mission was carried out on 16 September 2010, by a German officer, using a 35mm camera. The mission file contains the date, location, and details of the officer.
Hindi: अपने अधिकारी के
German media said the US has promised to limit the number of antennas in future in order to avoid similar incidents.
Hindi: German media say BfV hoped to identify presence of listening antennas and the action prompted an exchange between US and German foreign ministry in Berlin. German media said US has promised to
He called this a "red line." Hindi:
जमींस क्लैपर, ग्यारह वार्षिक अधिकारिया स्तर पर यू
The European Parliament has even appointed a special committee to investigate the US National Security Agency (NSA)’s vast and farreaching surveillance activities in Europe.
Hindi: पर भी संजय बुद्ध ने एड
Brazil’s president Dilma Rousseff has cancelled a planned state visit to Washington in protest. She says the spying is an “extremely serious” breach of international law and her country will take appropriate measures. The issue is set to dominate Brazilian politics for months.
Hindi: एस अ
This was not the first time the German government had been caught listening in on foreign leaders.
Hindi: आखरी चूँकि चन्द्रशेखर राजनीतिक दिग
At the same time, the global economy is still in a fragile state and the public is much more aware of the consequences of a cyberattack.
Hindi:
यूरोप के सबसे शक्तिशाली व्य
In the past it was possible to gain access to the data of users, even if they were not on the list of targets. The revelation of Snowden has created a lot of discussion. However, the government is not going to withdraw its commitment to the NSA. The debate has also revealed that the majority
I don't see why it should be illegal. And anyway we have to ask ourselves whether using the data for mutual benefit is not a positive thing. If it is better for the individual, it is also better for society as a whole.
Hindi: मैं यह सम
"We are losing to countries like India or China in the global race for talent. We are not attracting the best brains. IT specialists from other countries are not allowed to stay in Germany after their training. Many highly qualified people are leaving the country because they find better opportunities in other countries.""Gr
The survey of 370 senior executives at 332 German companies found 59% felt their companies had a high or very high risk of being targeted by espionage and 52% saw a high or very high risk of cyberattacks.
Hindi: डाे र्म प्र
Is this a reasonable assessment, and, if so, what measures could be put in place to prevent this kind of thing from happening in future?

Hindi: सर मैं इस विशिष्ट सुनवाई के द
The EU should also be able to use its own internet naming system, as the US has been slow to respond to requests for domain name allocations. The US has also had a self-proclaimed “dominance” in software and internet technology, but recent developments have called this into question. The EU has
They say they don’t have the time to learn about such tools, and they don’t see the value they can add to business.
Hindi: व्यापार नेताओं और सप्रायद प्रत्य
I say: No. There is no German Google. There is an English Google. So if you want a German Google, then you have to translate it into German. And then you are in fact, you are not a German Google, you are a German translation of an English Google. And then
so that I can stop thinking about you...and the love that we had. That will never happen again.
Hindi: Mere liye yeh nahi ho sakta ki mein apne pairon se apne pairon ke neeche jhukkar apne aankhon
"The industry needs to make a radical move. We are not just talking about improving software, but about a fundamental shift in the whole IT industry."
Hindi: "Ye us tarah nahi hai", Hasso Plattner, German software company SAP ke chairmen, se kehta hai.
The IT industry was a strong competitor in Europe, with huge investments in research. It was not the best, but it was still a strong competitor. Today, we are in a situation where we are being told: 'You are too late. You have to do this, this and this.' I
There is a single price for most goods. The key word is “Vollpreis” which means full price. In the stores, you will see small signs with the word “Vollpreis” on them. Vollpreis means that you have to pay full price for the product.
Hindi: Yeh sab IT industry ke baad (Everything but the IT industry after the IT industry).
Answer:
PSB 4: Make a paragraph on the given topic in about 100 words on the basis of the hints given below:
Hindi: तो (to) पन
The Chinese government has been accused in the past of ordering local services providers to install secret backdoors in their systems to give the Chinese government and intelligence agencies access.
Hindi: अभी तक, यूएस एस प्रणय
As a result, they are more aware of the need to be able to store data locally and control access to it. On the other hand, they are more reluctant to store data on the servers of a single supplier. This can be seen as a consequence of the Snowden affair, which was largely ignored
The figures were based on a sample of 2,000 organisations taken from 25 countries.
Hindi: चूँ ड भारतीय ड भारतीय काउंटर ने की
Hindi:
ज़ाम सन्बी, एसपी के संयुक्त प्रबंधक जीम ज़ाम सन्बी, एसपी के
But the fact that Japan and Israel are also on the list of countries that steal intellectual property could be the most important revelation of the study. The report’s findings show that these countries are not the only ones. Germany, India and Eastern European countries are also reportedly making attempts to obtain sensitive information.
H
However, it is the scale of the espionage that is shocking. It is clear that the Chinese have been spying on the US companies for years and using the information to gain a competitive advantage. This is not done by the Indian government. If this is not stopped, it will damage India’s economic partnership
Once, a senior took up a new position, he was not good at it. However, he tried and tried and tried. In the end, he succeeded. So, it has always been like this. A person starts without knowing anything. He does not know anything. He learns it and he
"We see a strong increase in demand in all regions of the world. We expect to see very attractive prices, in the double-digit range."
Hindi: यह विषय बचे सालों से बात करी
But the Americans should know that it is not in our national interest to accept spying on our vital interests.
Hindi: Hum hainke yeh bhi hamari tarah humare parivaarik aur vikasik pramukh ko bhi sab se chupake ch
However, incidents are now becoming so frequent that they have little choice but to take action.
Hindi: Corporate leder jinhe boaster nahi karna chaiye unhone apne countermeasures ko kaam karne ke liye kyun ki iss bat ka yakeen n
But for small and medium-sized companies, it is more difficult, since they often lack the expertise, or cash, to purchase and install firewalls, antivirus software and intrusion detection systems. The result is a boom in computer crime. According to a survey by the FBI, computer crime cost companies around $
“It is something that we do in every company, not just carmakers. We are aware of the danger,” he told journalists. The meetings in question took place in late 2014 and early 2015.
Hindi: Ulrich Hackenberg, board member in the car maker Audi,
The German intelligence service said the number of compromised smart phones and tablets had "significantly increased in recent years". It said some 10,000 smart phones had been compromised by foreign governments over the past five years, with "high-ranking" politicians and executives the most frequent targets. The BfV
They are not recycled/reused or handed over to the Government for reutilization.
Hindi: आधार प्रिपेड मोबाइल फ़ोन ना खरीदा जाता
The fact that they must comply with the rules that apply to financial intermediaries, while often having fewer resources than these large firms, increases the risk that they will become a target. The Commission’s findings show that only 15% of respondents consider themselves adequately protected against cyber threats. Only 9%
The size of the German market is fairly small, although Germany’s population is the largest in Europe (82.5 million people). The country’s population is also very young, with the average age of 40.7. This means that people in Germany are more likely to purchase products and services,
"The need to protect information is often underestimated."
Hindi: "Badi aur chhoti ke madat se apne mitti gondhne ki karya ko karne wale samajh mein kuch na kuch upyogi anubhavon ka bhav
It has banned Huawei from its territory and is discouraging its allies from the use of Huawei 5G devices. It is believed that the ban on Huawei is not just a security issue but a strategic issue. China can use Huawei’s 5G technology to spy on other countries. China has been
The paper reported that France, among others, is suspected of stealing information on US weapons and aerospace programs. The US government has yet to respond to the report, but security officials told the Washington Post that they had seen no evidence that the French government was involved in hacking for intelligence purposes. The paper said
"They want to know everything," he said. "They want our best people, our best ideas, our best strategy. They will do anything to get their hands on it. But the Chinese are the worst. I'm not even sure they really want our technology. It's almost like they want
The comment comes just as France and Germany are meeting to discuss the future of the European Union's (EU) internal security efforts, after a year of revelations about the US National Security Agency's (NSA) surveillance programmes.
Hindi: बर्नार्ड स्क
The information they provide is not to the detriment of our national security.

Hindi Translation : In America, we have the same level of espionage as we do, because it is in the national interest to protect our businesses. The information they provide is not to the detriment of our national security.

This is
Hindi: इस बार नहीं बोले जाएँगेका।
In the above sentence, the word “fool” does not translate into the word “बोले”.
Fill in
Hindi: गेजेटा के एक विक्षम बच्चे ने किया तोड़ा फ्रीक एक्सेसें
The body of Kendrick Johnson, 17, was discovered in January in the wrestling room at Lowndes High School, south of Valdosta, Ga., about 170 miles south of Atlanta. Johnson's body was discovered upside down, with his legs tucked into his sweatshirt, and his head
The official autopsy report ruled the death an accident, saying Kendrick died from positional asphyxiation after getting trapped in the mat. The family disputes that. They were suspicious. They were not satisfied with the findings. Johnson's mother, Jacquelyn Johnson, said that her son's body was blue when
"It was murder. It was murder," said the boy's father, John Johnson. "He didn't get killed by a rock. He got killed by somebody who did it on purpose."
Hindi: नागरिक के ऑस्टिन आ
"They want the truth and justice. They don't want the system to fail them again." Crump added that Kenneth Johnson, a 31-year-old father of three, died because "a police officer had a gun and excessive force, and overused that force." Kenneth Johnson's family members,
He was shot in the back of the head. It was a hit from behind. That's how he died.
Hindi: Vo sherish ne kiya hai ki voh aisa kyon mara. Wo aage ki taraf se shot kiya hai. Vo yahi kyon mar
"The bottom line is that they believe Trayvon Martin got away with murder, and they want justice for Trayvon."
Hindi: "Ye kehate hai ki iska koi nukasan hua nahi, ye kisi bhi tarah ke laws of physics se ya common
According to them, this is not a small mistake, this is a crime.
Hindi: उनको यह अपराध हो गया है कि उनके बेटे की मौ
Hindi: वे अपने बेटे को वाली गिरफ्तारी के लिए जाकर वहां से फिर तुरं
"We are going to get to the bottom of it," Moore said.
Hindi: यू. एस. अटोर्नी माइकल मूर स्कूल करने वाले
Hindi: क्या दिनिहत का कारण था?

Answer It:

English: What was the cause of death?

Hindi: दूसरों का जबरदस्त
Hindi: Usake marne ka karan koyee crime tha? English: The police have never found a man who is as good a singer as he Hindi: Koi unakee bhaanti apanee sahniyaanee aage kaadi nahee hain.
“I’ve been in the business for 20 years. I’ve worked with some of the greatest people in the world. I’ve had the opportunity to do some amazing things. I’ve worked with some of the greatest people in the world. I’ve had the opportunity to do some amazing things.
I will base my decisions on the law and the law alone, without fear or favor.
Hindi: Mai jo beech me kuch bhi dikhne laga, wohi meri sthitiyon pe aage badhta gaya. Mera paristhiti b
I want to liberate the world from the clutches of falsehood. I want to achieve the unity of mankind. I want to establish a world government.
Hindi: Meri mahanhtva yah hai ki main sach ka anand le sakoon. Mere pas yeh hai ki
"The decision is now up to the [UN] secretary-general."
Hindi: यह मैं चित्ती ख़ास है कि पूरी तरह से प्राथमिक
Hindi: मूर ने खबरपत्रों को कहा कि अधिकारी आधारित सर्जरी जांच के अन
It was one of the largest in US history, and included the participation of 50 pathologists, 15 FBI agents, 15 forensic anthropologists and 14 other specialists, according to The New York Times.
Now Translate the above text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: आध
"We don't have any information about the size of the ship or the amount of oil that is leaking. The economic impact on the region is definitely going to be significant." Hindi: "यह प्रश्न उत्तर करना/सु
“We have no control over the U.S. Attorney’s investigation, so we would have to ask the FBI to conduct an investigation into the matter, and if they uncover any criminal activity we would get involved,” he added.
Hindi: हमारे अनुसार
The report from the sheriff's office states, "Victim stated she was in the area of the 500 block of North Jefferson Street when two black males approached the car, one displayed a handgun and demanded her purse. The victim complied with the demands and the suspects fled the area on foot." The
The footage, taken from the courthouse where a district attorney was fatally shot, is evidence in a murder case against the accused gunman. District Attorney Brian D. Lowry was shot and killed on Saturday, Dec. 8, while attending a conference in Cartersville. His funeral was held on Tuesday
The teenager was last seen at a restaurant in the resort of Pattaya in Thailand's southeast on Saturday night. His parents reported him missing on Sunday morning. Police have said it appears the teenager fell from a balcony on the 15th floor of a hotel, but they are still investigating.
Hindi
Hindi: सीडीसी पीड़ितों कि शिक्षा संस्थायों के लिए बच्चों के आलस
The recommendations focus on three areas: identifying children at risk, training school staff, and establishing emergency action plans. The guidelines also call for schools to form teams and develop plans for dealing with severe allergic reactions and provide a safe environment for children with food allergies. The recommendations are based on a recent survey of
The federal government estimates that about 8 percent of children under age 18 have a food allergy, which includes peanuts, tree nuts, wheat, fish, shellfish, soy and milk. In severe cases, the allergy can be deadly.
Hindi: यह यह पहल
If you have a child with food allergies, it can be stressful for you and your child. All it takes is a few seconds for a child with food allergies to get very sick. It is important to know what foods to avoid, how to read food labels, and how to make sure that your
In 2007, 5.1 percent of children aged 0 to 17 years had food allergies. The rate was higher for children aged 0 to 3 years than for any other age group.
Hindi: CDC ka mutabik 1997-2007 mein sabhi
Schools that serve or have access to food should also follow the guidelines for food service.
Hindi: शैक्षणिक संस्थाओं में शिक्षक और कर्मचार
These recommendations may lead to changes in school policies and practices, providing millions of children with potentially life-saving treatment."
Hindi: यह भी निश्चित है कि इस संस्थाणी पर व
In some states, this will mean that schools in all districts can now stock epinephrine. In other states, the rules pertain to school districts only in the lowest income areas. There are currently six states with laws requiring schools to stock epinephrine. These are: Arizona, Arkansas
It also includes a list of foods that are common triggers for allergic reactions. This list is not exhaustive; allergies can be triggered by many other foods.
Hindi: विषय दिखाए गए आलर्जी के ल
These are common phrases a child may say to describe the sensation of burning, pain, or numbness on their tongue. This sensation is known as being "strawberry tongue" or "burning tongue."
Hindi: Kids may say, "It feels like something is poking my tongue," "
on Birth Certificates
Hindi: पिता संस्कृति बच्चों को जन्म अविरत रूप से जन्म प्रमाण
The decision by the German Federal Constitutional Court, which was announced in 2017, is a first for Europe. The ruling is a victory for rights activists and people born with ambiguous genitalia, who had been fighting for years to be recognized as neither female nor male. The court said children born with
They will be born in the middle of a spectrum between male and female, and parents will be able to choose the gender of their children. This is the new way of thinking about gender identity, a way that honors the individuality of the child.
Hindi:
English: The way we think about
The law does not prohibit any parents to declare their children's sex as male or female.
Hindi: नवा सरलता नियम ने अपने बचचे को अपनी ज
It is a law that is supposed to protect intersex people from abuse and discrimination. The law’s wording is ambiguous, and has been interpreted in different ways by different courts. In 2002, a court in Pforzheim, Germany, ruled that intersex children must be surgically altered
I don't know about other cultures, but in India, this would be a cause for celebration, not disgust.
Hindi: Ekk Intersex person, according to the BBC, said years later, "I am neither a man nor a woman." Maine aapko ek hi bhartiya
I will be able to look at myself in the mirror and be proud of the work of the medical staff who have given me a new life.
Hindi: मैं अस्तित्व बनाने के डॉक्ट
Instead, they are intersex, meaning that their sexual organs are ambiguous or atypical. Typically, children with ambiguous genitals are assigned male or female at birth by doctors. But a growing number of parents are choosing to delay assigning genders to their babies and allow them to develop into the men or women they
Some may not exhibit any symptoms, while others may face severe health problems related to hormone imbalances, infection, and infertility.
Hindi: Yeh (Koi) unhein sex (seks) development (jivanik) disorders (bimariyon) ke (ke) group
(She was the American divorcee who married Edward VIII in 1936.)
Hindi: वालिस सिम्पसन कैसे एक इंस्टर सेक्स थी। (व
Most of the children who end up having surgery are boys who have ambiguous genitalia and who have no clear male or female identity in their early years.
Hindi: लगभग सभी डॉक्टर्स अपने
The law would allow people to identify as neither male nor female, and avoid the challenge of "having to create documents that are sort of a fiction," he said. Drescher added that people who identify as neither male nor female could be at risk of discrimination in areas such as employment and health care
After birth, doctors have to determine whether to allow the child to live as a girl or boy. (Source: Xinhua News) Hindi: इंटरसेक्स बच्चों को राजनीतिक
"Surgery is not something that should be done routinely."
Hindi: "Kuch logon ke liye jivan daanvar hain jo surgery ke liey - chadhaav ka arth hai, kuch logon kay liye nahi", ishwar ki sh
The way a child talks, the clothes it wears, the way it behaves, all these things can be used to help determine the gender. Sometimes, however, the child will be able to decide its gender, as Kelsey did. Her mother says, ‘She knows exactly what she wants. She
It is difficult to know the sex of a child until birth. But after birth, the way a child behaves and the way boys and girls behave differently, there is no doubt that they have different gender identity. These things are natural. But sometimes there are some problems. Parents are very confused and it
It is a question of fate or destiny. I don’t think that there is any other answer to this.
Hindi: Kisi ke bhi aapko man ki baat ka jawab nahi de sakte hain. Is baat ka koi aur koi jawab n
If you find out, you're liable to be just as gay.
Hindi: यह यह बात है की क्यों लोग लगते हैं, जब आप
The report recommended that intersex people should be considered a separate sexual minority, and it mentioned that intersex people have faced "violent and abusive treatments" by medical professionals. The fact that intersex people have been treated by doctors as "defective" and "disordered" has been described by some
The levels of hormones that are responsible for the development of the secondary sexual characteristics are also affected by the condition. While the condition affects both genders, it is four to 10 times more common in boys than in girls.
Hindi: Isse sarvshreshth sex ki visheshta,
It provides detailed examples of the discrimination that intersex women face in accessing health care and the human rights abuses they face in relation to their reproductive health and at the hands of the police and the criminal justice system. It also provides an overview of the widespread discrimination transgender women face in accessing employment, education,
They can get out of the house and live in the outdoors with other boys, who are not boys.
Hindi: लड़ क पदार्थ फेल महिला का बचपन वर्त
The move, which is expected to be approved next month, will benefit more than 500,000 transgender people in India. India's Supreme Court also recognised transgender people as a third gender in 2014, but the move will make it official.
Hindi: हिंदी:
May-Welby is a man, but the courts ruled that his birth certificate could not say he was either male or female. May-Welby, who has a female partner, said he was "really happy that I've got this. It's a win for gender diversity and social justice."
The new passports will be introduced next year.
Hindi: जर्मन पासपोर्ट्स एक दूसरे नाम अनुसार अंग्रेजी औ
The country's highest court has struck down a law that would have made it easier for transgender people to change their gender on their birth certificate. The law was passed in 2016, but it didn't win enough support in the Constitutional Council, which ruled the law unconstitutional because it didn't have an
They say that "gender theory" radicalizes young people and leads them to question their identity.
Hindi: इस साल अफगानिष्टान के राजनीतिक वरिष्ठ
The website's editor, Michael J. Miller, said the new law "is the end of the human race."
Hindi: अमरीका के आधारभूत साइट कैथोलिक
She says that her son was diagnosed with a health condition that made him incapable of expressing gender preferences, but she was not allowed to raise him as a boy.
Hindi: Ek Maryland Maa, jiske bacche neeche haath kar raha tha, batai thi ki us
"We wanted our children to feel a sense of freedom and responsibility," she added.
Hindi: बाल उनकी जाना बाल वहां को खुशाख़ोश न क
They need to feel secure in their environment and the people who care for them. Stability and certainty are important for children’s emotional and intellectual development.
Hindi: बच्चों को सुविधा और सुरक्षा ह
Today, a medical term is used to describe people with this condition: intersex. Intersex people have varying body parts that are neither distinctly male nor female.
Hindi: इतने वर्षो से बच्चों को पु
But now, we know that gender is much more complicated than that, and it's not a matter of erasing these identities and then drawing them again. It's a matter of accepting that these identities are true, and that we're not going to erase them. We're going to include them,
In 2015, a trans man testified in court that he had been surgically assigned female at birth and, as an adult, was diagnosed with a rare condition that meant his genitals were not fully developed and he was unable to have sex. He was denied a sex-change operation on the grounds that
"It's a little bit like a heart attack in the sense that it causes emotional pain, but it's not a heart attack in the sense that it doesn't lead to death. It's just that it feels like it's the end of your life." Hindi: "यह 50
And you had these babies born at 24 weeks, and they had no brain, they had no arms, they had no legs, they had no eyes, they had no ears. And you'd say, 'Give me the scalpel,' and we'd cut them up and we'd throw them
In other words, money argued that children could be trained to become the gender they were not born with.
Hindi: बच्चों के असीमित नाकाम नीचे का शास
He argued that gender identity was a social construct, like race or class, which was unpredictable from a person's physical characteristics.
Hindi: उन्होंने शेल्ट का मानव भेद का शब
The case involved a boy who was physically female, but who was raised as a boy. After puberty, the child was found to have the body of a woman and the internal sex organs of a man. The child was raised as a girl, but was clearly male in appearance. The child's parents
[2] Hindi: वह नारी समझ कर घुटने के बीच का टीका हुआ लोगों को बच्चे
"He offered no details, no evidence, no proof, no documents, no witnesses, no nothing. It was a completely misleading speech."
Hindi: “मोनी ने पेश कार्यक्रम का उसके ब
They had three children together. When he was 22, he decided to transition back to female.
Hindi: कभी एक बच्चा के समय, उसने कुंडली और म
Hindi: 38 साल की हुई है उसकी दुखद निकाली. Q.2 Translate the following text from English to Hindi: English: It was a big day for Yuvraj.
The doctor is the center of the health care system, and "the patient is seen as a pest, a problem, a complication. The doctor is the one who must be served, not the patient. " 
Hindi: ड्रेसर ने कहा कि
They are "not happy with the outcome" because they are transsexuals. They are not happy with the outcome of the surgery because they are transsexuals. They are not transsexuals because they are happy with the outcome of the surgery.
Hindi: Par 1990s mein j
As Bruce writes in his memoir, “I don’t have a womb or ovaries. There never was one. I never had a period. I never will.” Bruce’s parents decided early on that he was a boy, and raised him accordingly. But Bruce didn’t feel like a boy and began
When the patient, known as Mr A, was in his late teens, he developed a lump on his scrotum which he thought was a hernia. But after two operations, doctors realised he was born with an intersex condition known as complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (CAIS). Under
To hide the missing penis, Bruce was fitted with a prosthetic penis which he wore up until 1997 when he had it removed. In addition to the removal of his testes, Bruce underwent surgery to artificially create female genitalia. He also received female hormones to grow as a girl. Bruce
The treatment is not medically necessary.
Hindi: उन्हो ने वहाँ के लिए 12 साल के बाद भी पुरुष के समाज संक्र
"But I'm still hurt and I'm still angry."
Hindi: "Maine samajh liya tha ki main ek ladki nahi hoon," wo kuchh der pehle ABCNews.com mein bole. "Par main dukhi aur mohabbat kar
I had to say what was in my heart.
Hindi: Mai theek hona chahta tha par bahut mushkil tha kehne wala kuch bhi.
18. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: My father and I are different. He has a
But at 19, he decided he wanted to keep his penis.
Hindi: 18 साल के हुए थे वजीनोप्लास्टी. 19 साल के हुए थ
Hindi: बचपन में वे अपने ज़िन्दगी के अंदर अपनी प्रतिक्रिया को ज़रूर
He was with his wife on a beach when the tsunami hit. They had just enough time to run to higher ground. When the waters receded, they found the body of their three-year-old daughter. She had been thrown up onto the beach by the wave. The father was devastated by the loss
I'm 36 now, and I'm experiencing the same problems that my mother had, only hers were made worse by the fact that she was never told she had been sterilized. I'm angry, and I feel cheated. I would have had children if I had known I could. I can
He was born with an overly large clitoris, and a vagina that was too narrow to allow for normal sexual intercourse. Like many people with a DSD, Bruce was raised as a girl.
Hindi: बर्यूस एक ऐसा ग
But he was still very sick and needed to have his stomach removed. After that, he lost a lot of weight and had trouble eating. So he had a feeding tube implanted in his stomach.
Hindi: Apne sachai ke baad, woh vyakti thi aur testosterone injection se
He now realises that his life was a waste. He has no hope of success in life. He will be unable to do anything in life. He has no hope of happiness. He has lost all hope of getting married. He has lost all hope of getting a child. He cannot dream of
Some of the language he uses in his advocacy is confrontational. He calls those who do the operations "bad doctors," and says he wants to "strangle" the parents who had the surgeries performed on him.
Hindi: आज, उन्हें ए
Her group is helping defend a college student in California facing potential felony charges for distributing free condoms on campus.
Hindi: लेकिन अनी तमर-मटिस, कैलिफोर्निा भ
"This is already happening in a lot of the cases they have in Germany."
Hindi: "बहुत कुछ उद्वाष्टकों ने तय करने के लिए
Hindi: हम डरते हैं कि यह किसी अन्य स्थान पर भेदभाव प्रकट करेगा.
English: It is important to have
If the sex is wrong, then we take the sample again. Some people seem to think that they have a right to a baby of a given sex. We think this is wrong. If you don’t like the sex, then don’t go to the clinic. You can’t force us to do
We can't afford to speculate about this, so I think we all need to just be very careful about what we say, and we need to have firm and clear policies in place. I think it's a very sensitive issue for everyone. I think it's a very sensitive issue for everyone. I
The law grants the right to use a third gender option in the national census and on identity documents. The law also allows transgender Australians to get married in a religious ceremony in a church of their choice.
Hindi: तमर-मत्स ने कहा कि
"As long as they have the ability to understand the consequences of their actions, they should be able to make the choice. It's not our job to decide what's best for them. That's their choice."
Hindi: "Adhults should be able to make their own decisions about
English: German law is about assigning it at birth.

Q: The change in meaning of words and phrases over time
A: What are the five major semantic changes?

Q: metaphor
A: What is a figure of speech that makes use of an object to convey something else?

Q: Met
I cannot believe that the House of Commons actually has to debate this. It is a disgrace.
Hindi: इसे अपने बच्चे को यह आधार पर खेलने का ह
It is not our job to make decisions for them. Sometimes parents need help in making decisions about their teenager’s health. Teenagers have questions about many things, including their own bodies. The doctor or nurse can help answer these questions. They can also help teenagers find help from other people in the community
"If you can get a child to say, 'Here's what I want to do,' and the parents can say, 'Well, I need more information,' it's going to be a very positive thing," she said. "This is a child who is not being forced into anything. This
The lack of functioning testosterone receptors in her body means she has female chromosomes, vagina, and external genitalia. She is a girl, but has XY chromosomes and no uterus or ovaries. She was never able to menstruate or have a period.

Hindi: बरैत क
She is now a hermaphrodite.
Hindi: Unke androgen receptors ka kharab hona se katie female characteristics develop karne laga. Ab wo hermaphrodite ho gayi hai.
(10)
(1) (2) (3) (
She is a woman without a womb. She has no reproductive capability and is therefore not a woman.
Hindi: वह एक गुड़िया है, परंतु उसके पास अप
She also works to prevent mental illness and to improve the mental health of young people in her community.
Hindi: अब 29 वर्षीय कैटी को मृत्यु का दर्द
In this case, the child would be her biological child.
Hindi: Ye wo bhi hai, jo kucch nahi kar pati hai, lekin usne apna adhikar poora karne ke liye pehle hi adopt kiya hai. Ab wo is
"But at the same time, we need to give the parents the tools to be able to make the right decisions." Hindi: अर्थात अधिक माता-पिता के कुछ अंधे
Hindi: पहले टेस्ट तक परीक्षण होने के लायक इसलिए थोड़ी समय लेने के ल
Don't neglect the child. There is only one child. Forget about all these other children. Take care of this child. This child is the Lord. This child is the Guru. This child is the human being. This child is the animal. This child is the tree. This child is the
Congratulations.
Hindi: Tumhari Ladki bohut khubsurat hai aur bahut maja aayega. Badhayi ho.

Now, let's convert it into Nepali:

English: You have a wonderful baby and enjoy the fun. Congratulations.
Nepali: T
We don't have to take a risk of having our skin removed and replaced by a synthetic material. We don't have to have a foreign body introduced into our body. We don't have to have a permanent scar. We don't have to have a permanent scar. We don't have to have
"It also shows respect for the siblings and the family."
Hindi: "यह बच्चों को फैसला में शामिल करने के लिए लाता
But in the meantime, we have to make sure that the adults in their lives are aware of the many factors that influence children's gender identities. These include their upbringing, their physical characteristics, their interests, and even the way they play with toys.
Hindi: At the end of the day,
The children’s decision is more likely to be taken seriously by their parents.
Hindi: Iss tarah se us vyakti ko apne desh ki ghatnaon ka sahara liya jata hai. Isme hamein yeh dekhna hai ki us vy
The camp was inaugurated by the Sub-Judge, Sandip Kaur, who addressed the campers and then the campers were informed about legal awareness.
The campers were also told about the available legal aid services and how to apply for them. The members of the Legal Aid Committee of the
The camp was held at the school premises in the morning and in the afternoon it was held at the library. At the camp, information about education was provided in Hindi to the people who came from the nearby villages.
Hindi: इस उगाद में व
Advocate M.L. Gupta said that the children should be taught about the laws in the camp. He also said that the people should have the habit of obeying the laws and they should also try to teach their children the same habit.
Sarpanch said that the people should also call the police
Some of them were strangers to the language. The local school was not very well equipped. It is hoped that the school will be renovated soon.
Hindi: विक्रान्त ग्रामीण ने जंग की
in 2012
Hindi: रिपور्ट: ओबामा अफसर को यूनाइटेड इयर्जी में हिलरी क
The Times reports the potential switch was discussed as Obama's reelection hopes appeared to be dimming in late 2011 and early 2012. But sources tell the Times that the president never seriously considered the idea.
Hindi: प्रधानमंत्री अर
But the book, which hits shelves on Tuesday, also features a number of other jaw-dropping moments, including details about the now-infamous "47 percent" video.
Sanskrit: जीवन यथार्थ व्यवह
The aides concluded that there was no upside to dropping Biden, the Times reported.
Hindi: 2011 के व क म व बात के ल ए द त य उनक ब कय ल य
This move would have been an attempt to counter the Republican gains made by Mitt Romney, who was perceived as a stronger candidate than John McCain.
Hindi: इसके अनुसार टाइम्स की राष्ट्री
Mr. Obama’s strategists had no clear sense of whether the president could carry the day in Illinois or whether he should devote the rest of the week to more competitive states like New Mexico and Iowa. But Mr. Obama’s wife, Michelle, did not hesitate. She told her husband that he should
Hindi: राष्ट्रपति के सभी परिवार से अध्यक्ष के कुछ अधिकारी - डेली,
Hindi: "द्विप साइड" दाली ने भाईन पर लगातार निर्णय लेते हुए धूम
“She was a candidate for vice president,” he said.
Hindi: मार्टिन ने निशाना के साथ एक इंटरव्यू में दाली
"I'm so excited about it. I think it's going to be very good for the country."
Hindi: "Maine ek bahut baar is baare mein baat karni thi, aur yeh ek unme se ek the," Daley ne paper ko kaha
You know, he was the President of the United States, and he was a fucking basket case. He was a total basket case. He didn't know what the fuck he was doing, so we were like, "Holy Christ, what do we do?"
Hindi: तुम ह
"You have to know what you are getting into," Martin said. "We weren't going to spend a lot of money if we didn't think we had a shot."
Hindi: डॉली के नाम पर अध्यय
"I think that's what we're seeing here with Hillary Clinton. I think that he is the front-runner. I think that is the reality of the situation. And I think that she may be looking down the road and saying, 'It's not going to be easy for me to win that
A senior administration official said Monday that Obama did not know about the talks until recently. The official said Obama had instructed the team to keep him informed of developments, but that the president was not involved in the details of the negotiations. The official stressed that the talks were complicated and involved several U.S.
"He said, 'It's none of your business. And that was the end of our conversation,'" Martin said.
Hindi: Martin ने बताया कि वो CNN के बारे में देली को
"I think the president's confident that the programming is being done appropriately and he's comfortable with the fact that we're getting the information we need to keep the American people safe," Daley said. "From my perspective, I think the president is aware of what's going on and I think he
The book is merely a "reporter's notebook," he said. The White House did not respond to a request for comment.
Hindi: मार्टिन ने कहा कि "दोहरे दबाव" ज
Martin said he did not know but that he thought Obama was not getting the best advice. Cooper asked Martin whether he thought Biden was up to the job of being president. Martin said he thought Biden was up to the job of vice president, but that he was not sure whether he was up to the
"I don't know. I really don't know how anybody could reconstruct something like that."
Hindi: "Achcha hai," Martin ne kaha. "Main nahi jaanta. Main nahi jaanta ke kaise koi kuchh yehi yaad kaise
The treat created by Italian pastry chef Matteo Stucchi features a black ice cream base with a dash of blue spirulina powder that glows under a black light. Stucchi announced the new dessert on Instagram, sharing a short video of him scooping the ice cream, which is topped
The dessert, called Bio-Glow, was made by Ben Morrow, and is made of milk, sugar, colouring and fluorescent jellyfish protein from the Nishinoshima jellyfish, which can be found in Japanese waters. It was created as part of a campaign to raise awareness about the
In the Indian Ocean, a deep sea comb jelly, known as the “sea walnut,” emits a green glow when touched or shaken. The light emitted by the jellyfish has been used in several food products and drinks in Japan. Francis, who is a professor at the University of Toronto, is the
Hindi: उसने एक प्रसारण पत्र पढ़ते जाते हुए इससे अधिकारिक की आवश
The effect doesn't last long. Any ice cream left in the bowl at the end of the experiment can be eaten, but the glow will be gone. The glow effect is bioluminescence, and it's a chemical reaction. The ice cream contains a chemical called luciferin. Luciferin
If you lick the lights out then the ice cream will no longer work.

Hindi:
च्रिस बताता है कि ड्राई फ्रुट की लिंग दिमाग क
Hindi:
English: With the rise of technology, the need for professional training centers has increased. Hindi:
English: Do you think that this type of training is beneficial for students? Hindi: English: The absence of such training centers in remote areas has caused a lot of problems. Hindi:
English:
This reaction produces the bitter taste in your mouth, which is triggered by your taste buds. The bitter taste in the ice cream is due to the presence of a compound called phenylthiocarbamide (PTC), which is used to intensify the flavor of ice cream.
Hindi: Ham
The pH level is based on how much acid is in the ice cream.
Hindi: आपका मुँह थोड़ा फ़िर चरबी के तेल को बढ़
It's only been tested in a few kitchens but we're hoping to expand to other rooms over time. Here is how it works: you plug in the device into a wall socket, plug in the light bulb of your choice (we recommend a 5 watt, 2700K bulb), set
Hindi: यह हमारे बनने के बाद सबसे अधिक पूर्ण खाना है जो हमने किया है
Let's say I have 3 scoops a week. That's £420 a month. I spend £1,680 a year on scoops. I've been doing it for five years. That's £8,400. And that's just on scoops. I don't want to
This is the first time I have had this dish. Hindi: मुलायम ने यह व्यंजन तेजी से बचाया है। मुलायम (
But the most popular flavour by far is its bacon flavour.
Hindi: चारली का आयनिक कंपनी, ब्रिस्टॉल के पास बना है,
He has been working on a new form of travel; a high-speed transport system, a sort of teleportation, that will allow people to travel the world in minutes. It’s called the Hyperloop, and it’s designed to travel at speeds in excess of 1,200 kilometres per hour,
* Note: I
would like to translate it literally, without the use of the word 'ice
cream'.
Hindi: Vo kahata hai : "Main bhi yah chahata hoon ki hamara anuman nishchit
sangit ho jay."
I have a feeling it will involve laser beams.
Hindi: Yeh kahin hamesha ke liye impossible hai, kyunki paneer ki vishay mein ice-crystal ki vajah se ice cream ki refraction hoti hai, lekin mai keh s
.
Hindi: य नह ल जमज क गहयतन करत तस, चन य व जशप द ल य ज त ह.
Answer:
The ice cream
The attendance was so high that the men had to stand in queues to buy the vegetables. The vegetable vendors were shouting in Hindi and English. The men were buying the vegetables in a hurry. The women made the vegetable vendors to cut the vegetables as per their preference. They were able to give the vegetables
To avoid this, a special house was built in which the utensils were kept to be purchased. The house was painted red. This house was named ‘Utensil House’. The king and queen of that state had three sons.
Hindi: Kuchh samay baad us samay
The shopkeepers in these markets had stock worth lakhs of rupees locked in their shops. The shopkeepers of Naharpur and Ashok Vihar market had come out to protest against the destruction of the shops. But the police and the administration did not make any attempt to pacify them.
The police officers have been working day and night and have been punishing those who were indulging in illegal activities.
Hindi: इसी तरह यदि गद्यांश के पिताम्पूर
They wanted to wear the ornaments to a party that night.
Hindi (Suggested translation): बहुत सारे लोग चांदी और चांदी के आदि वस
Hindi: क्योंकि यहां पर अन्य दुकानों के साथ साथ बांह की रोड भी बेरहम हो
Because of this people leaving the office had to spend hours in traffic jams on their way home.
Hindi: इसलए फाइनेंस के जरिये ऐसे लोगों जो अ
Halloween is almost here, which means that it’s time for a little Halloween trivia.
Let’s start with some basics. According to the National Retail Federation, American consumers will spend $7.4 billion on Halloween this year—enough to buy every single LEGO brick set ever made, plus
You put on a costume, you go door to door, and you get free candy. And the best part was you didn't have to brush your teeth. I thought, why not keep the tradition going? I look forward to it every year. And, of course, I put up the obligatory
My mother and my grandmother were strict. My paternal grandmother was strict and she was always angry. She was always yelling at my father and my brother. My mother was never angry. She was always happy. She taught me how to be a good person.
Hindi: Mere bhai aur main
I've become quite a miser. I have to live on a tight budget. I have to be economical. At every step, I have to keep watch on expenses. Whenever I go out, I have to be very careful about what I spend. I have to be careful not to incur a loss
I just don't have the time to do it. I have better things to do with my time that night. I've never given out candy in my apartment before.
Hindi: मैं इस बार की वर्ष आगे
I don't dress up. I don't go to parties. I don't do jack. I'm a total downer. I'm a real Halloween downer.
Hindi: मैं कुछ अन्य दिनों पर भ
The average individual will spend $74.34 on the holiday, and those ages 18-24 will spend the most, at $88.79 per person.
Hindi: अमेरिका में प्रत्येक एक प्रत
I’m always intrigued to see what is going to be in and what’s going to be out for the season. This year, I’ve already spotted some trends that I’m super excited about and I can’t wait to show off!
Hindi: एक शानद
(National Retail Federation)
Hindi: एक लाख अनुपालन के लिए दिनांक 6.9 बिलियन डॉलरों और उ
They're all over the place, from the 'My Little Pony' cartoon to the 'Dora the Explorer' movie. 'The Shining' was even remade with a sexy version of the carpet. But the one that really takes the cake is the sexy version of the Eiffel Tower
The symbols of health and fitness are changing.
Hindi: बहनों को अजूनी नहीं कि सेक्सी प्रोफेशनल नहीं होना
We'll be seeing a lot of birds and flowers too, but I'm betting that this will be a year for cats. If you have a cat, you know what I'm talking about.
Hindi: इस्तेमाल करने के ल
I have always loved watching scary movies, but I do not know how to dress up as a zombie. I found the following instructions on a website called Laughing Squid. The instructions are in English.
Hindi: According to Google, the highest searched costumes are zombies, Batman, pirates and witches
That's how it all started anyway. But if you ask me, I'd rather go out and take a risk and just hope for the best. And that's the only way to test my limits.
Hindi: मैं तो थोड़ी स
It seems that many people want to dress their dogs up. I discovered that there are even shops in America that sell special dog clothes.

Hindi: Last year hum apne ghar ko chalak liye aur mujhe is baat ka anuman ho gaya ki hum bhi j
Some pets will be dressed in frilly princess costumes, others will be dressed as the character from Star Wars. (If you want to make your own pet costume, here's a list of pet costume ideas.) In most cases, costumes are meant to be cute, not scary. However, pets can
Hindi: वो बहुत चीज़ों की बेहतरीन चुटकियों के लिए अर्थ देता है. (
We've got all the classics, plus the latest and greatest. And that's all we do. We're not a toy store. We don't sell clothes. We don't sell music. We don't sell soda or pretzels. We don't sell greeting cards. We don't sell
And they will buy more than 178 million pounds of it in the next 12 months. It’s not a new video game or a popular cell phone. It’s chocolate. It’s the most popular treat at Halloween, Easter and Valentine’s Day. It’s found in everything from birthday cakes and
Hindi: यह आसानी से 600 मिलियन लोगों के लिए हर्सी बार, लोलीपप्प, देसी
The projected $1.9 billion in candy sales is a 4.3% increase over last year, which means that trick-or-treaters are expected to come home with an average of $20 per child.
Hindi: इस बार के 41 म
Most of the chocolate we consume at Halloween is chocolate candy (not the actual chocolate in the candy bar).
Hindi: अभी तक हम इसे खरीदेंगे और, जो या ह
And the most popular flavors of the three shapes of candy corn? According to a survey conducted by Candy Store in August, the most popular flavor is banana, followed by cotton candy and s'mores.
Hindi: दुनिया में कितना ख
Or, that is, about 9 billion individual kernels of corn. Or, that is, about 9 billion individual kernels of corn.
Hindi: यह अधिक तो 9 करोड़ फटते ब
The person I love the most is the one I can never have.
Hindi: It's a mystery I have yet to solve. The person I love the most is the one I can never have.
A: It's a mystery I have yet to solve. The person I love the most is
For some people, the idea of being in a haunted house is highly unpleasant, maybe even frightening. The majority of people, however, find the prospect of being scared in a haunted house exciting. Haunted houses are not just places to be scared in but they are also a great place to meet new
Hindi: उनके सबसे अच्छे नाम, जैसे " शादी के बाद घरों के दरवाजे के प
Hindi: बिक़्ष तथा घुड़े में हमारे बारे में यह आश्चर्य कितना बहुत
Fill a large bowl with water and add a few drops of food coloring. Add a few drops of dish soap, and stir to combine. Grab a small plastic pumpkin or another small container. Put a few drops of food coloring into the pumpkin and then add a few drops of dish soap. Stir to
But, what if you don't want to carve another pumpkin this year? There are other ways to decorate your home for Halloween.
Hindi:
चार्ली ब्राउन ने हमें बारहवीं की
The tradition of filling jack o'lanterns with candy or small toys to give to trick-or-treaters started in the early 1900s and didn't become popular until the mid-1900s, according to the New York Times.
Hindi: अभी प
That figure does not include the cost of the pumpkin spice lattes, muffins, and other food and drink items that have become a part of the fall tradition during recent years.
Hindi: यह वर्ष, अमेरिकियों
That’s more than any other state.
Hindi: आपके परिवार के प्रांत के उपरोक्त चंद्रधर प्रवचन का अन
The Mathisdon's pumpkin beat out all others to claim the world record. The pumpkin was planted on June 24 and grew to its gargantuan size in just 120 days.
Hindi: Aap ko extra credit ki kami hogi to tim aur susan mathisdon ka n
The stamp would be issued in the presence of the Hon'ble President of India and the Prime Minister."
Hindi: MCA ने रिपोर्ट के अनुसार, "कार्यकारी सम
The presentation would be followed by the naming of the stadium and unfurling of the flag by the Chief Minister of Maharashtra.
Hindi: अब तक इस दृश्य वस्तुविध नह
It is an interesting and exciting fact. The team which wins the toss would be given a choice to bat or bowl.
Hindi: Abhee toh, aisee ek coin toss ke lie ek special coin ki jarurat padegi jo MCA ke lie rakhna padega.
The brochure will also include a facsimile of the letter written by Tendulkar to the MCA on June 2nd 2004, the day he announed his retirement. The brochure will be available for free of cost. The Tendulkar jersey will also be made
The souvenir will be released by the Prime Minister in the presence of the ICC and BCCI officials on December 5.
Hindi: एसो सो सो सा कि पं द र प्राय की साँगी औ
The organisers have also been penalised by the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) for flouting its guidelines.
Hindi: वे कहते हैं कि हर दिन 10,000 चादर, 10,000 श
the launch of the Land Rover Discovery Sport in India.
Hindi: अमेरिका के नं जीवन सुरक्षा के लिए निर्मित खरीद
The most notable feature is the roof-mounted air intake that is used to feed the twin-turbo engine.
Hindi: अंतरिक्ष में नासार्थी चाइल्ड बैच
These options are not included in the purchase price of the vehicle and are available for an additional fee.
Hindi: वह बदलें जा सकते हैं, एक सेवा एक्सिट
Bowler's customers now want a vehicle that is the fastest, but also the one that is the most comfortable, the most driver-friendly and the one that looks the best." Bowler has responded to this by announcing a new rally car, which will be on sale in the UK from the end of
Some want to complete the whole distance, others just their local stage. Some are doing it for charity, others for their own reason. And some just want to prove they can. But no matter how experienced you are, and no matter what you're hoping to achieve, you have to start somewhere,
The new Rally Raid UK series will be the UK's first multi-discipline series, and the fact that it's run in partnership with the MSA means that it will have the support and credibility of the sport's governing body. The series is aimed at all levels of rallying, from novices to
Hindi: Hum phir se is Defender Challenge Car ko develop karne mein aapnai bahut pasand karte hai - iss challenge mein bahut hi khushi se humein rahenge.

3. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The car is a standard
The Defender Challenge will culminate with the Dubai Challenge, which will be held in November in the United Arab Emirates. The Dubai Challenge will be a three day, 1,500km event. The event will feature a Prologue and two days of competitive events across the landscape of the United Arab Emirates
This year, with the help of the local police, the traders were persuaded to set up their market at the government school in the transport area. But the traders wanted to set up their shops near the market, which was not allowed. Instead, the police directed the traders to set up their shops along
They are confused whether to keep the shop open or not. Shopkeepers say that they are keeping their shops closed to avoid trouble.
Hindi: उच ध मं ग जड के प्रभ व न पर अनु
Hence, the shopkeepers are not even able to store the firecrackers in the shops.
Hindi: शुरुवात में बहुत जलेबी विक्रेता जिसके प
But on the other hand, the local municipal corporation had declared it safe. The commission has said that after its visit the market was no longer safe and it has also directed the administration to trace the people who were responsible for the safety of the market. The commission has also stated that the market was not
The High court gave its verdict within twenty four hours.
Hindi: किन्तु काफी कम से कम तालिका देखने की आवश्यकता नही
The court also castigated the the Union Government for not taking any action or providing any financial assistance to the state governments for the management of the model town of the Amritsar city.
Hindi: Amritsar Ke Adhikari Ke Prashno Par Hight Court Ne Aakram
They have to live in the open air and this results in many diseases.
Hindi: Kuch particular place ke bich mein unke liye koi chota sa ek jagah nahi mila hai. Isliye wo ghaav aur dard se pareshan rehte
The market is adjacent to the cremation grounds. The firecrackers market in Jahajgarh is the oldest and biggest firecrackers market in the Bikaner region. However, it has not been shifted for the last 50 years. The firecrackers market in Bikaner is
The state government has also banned the sale of firecrackers in the state. The order was issued by the state government on 15 August before the order of the Supreme Court. The state government has also instructed the police to take strict action against the sale of firecrackers. The traders of fire
The forms were sold out in a matter of hours. The counter was set up in the market following a request from the traders, who had complained of long queues in the firecracker market. The forms were sold for Rs. 1,000, and the counter recorded sales worth Rs.
However, over the years, it was observed that the people of India were willing to endure the hardships of their daily life, if they had the assurance that the next day would be better than that of the previous day. Thus, with the declaration of Independence, the primary objective became the establishment of a
Firecrackers were also a big market in the center. The matter of the day was the firecrackers. The main activity in the firecracker market is to check the business of firecrackers. In which the government has made a lot of rules, but the shop owners say that we
Hindi: उन्होंने कटोरी कारोबारकों के उद्योगियों के निर्माणों को पी
The firecracker traders have come and said that they can start the business and we have reserved 1000 square feet and can start the business. I have asked that they are not registered with the Fire Department, they have not applied for a license, so they are not allowed to do business.
In Hindi: हल हल दवल ह रह ह है रहहै यह एक दवल है

Q: Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: My father is a farmer.
Hindi: इसी ल ए ब दलवार के वड़कर के डर थे
1. Correct the following sentence by choosing the correct option:
English: The firecracker vendors were worried because
Hindi: कमजोरों की क्रोध से ख़तरा भीड़ में लगा हुआ था।
Maya: सब लो
“In case of losses, we will file a case against the district administration for the loss of profit. We will also ask for compensation,” they said while talking to Hindustan Times on Friday.
Hindi: आज फाँसुग कर क्र
The protesters blocked the traffic on Ranjeet Avenue from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. The traders were demanding that the government reduce the license fee for selling firecrackers. They demanded that the government should not take the license fee for the entire year, but just for
The police had to use lathi charge to control the situation.
Hindi: दलालों ने बाहर के लोगों को शांति के लिए वार्ड
The traders were blocked from selling the firecrackers on the ground that the sale of firecrackers was prohibited in the city.
Hindi: बारों में तो बिना पुराने रुखों क
.
Hindi: इंग्लिश: झील के पीछे घुसा और मार गई पापी, पुलिस ने उसे ग
Hindi: कैबर होना का स्वागत है और हम विश्व में एक विशेष देश के पहले र
.
Hindi: वह वह बाथ्स ने निकला त्री दिनों की बारात में एक बाथ्स ने पह
.
Hindi: Firefighters ने आजादी वाले की खुदाई के लिए धड़कन दबाए बाधक को जल
The four-month-old pup, who has not been named, fell 10ft from some rocks in East Sussex, before getting wedged between two large rocks on the cliff edge at Beachy Head. Firefighters were called to the scene at 2.30pm on Sunday afternoon to solve the pup
She is now being treated at a veterinary hospital and could be released in a day or two. Her owners, who live in Panchgani, a hill station near Pune, said Ruby was found by a local farmer, who heard her cries and took her to the police station. The farmer,
Alderson said: "We are just so thankful for the work that the fire brigade have put in and just to be able to see her again." The couple and their pet dog were in the car when it plunged into the 25ft quarry. They had tried to get her out themselves but their
Hindi: उनके गाड़ी का एक कमी होने पर उन्हें उसे वापस आकर्षित करने के ल
Water around the 17-month-old German Shepherd had frozen, and she was shivering and clearly distressed. A rescue team helped coax her onto a makeshift plank, which was then lowered to the ground. The dog was checked over by a vet and is now doing well.
Hindi: बु
Cleckheaton Fire Station said Ruby had been rescued and "is doing well".
Hindi: यहाँ से रिबी और उनकी माँ को सुरक्षित करने के
What she had done was very dangerous but with the help of some of our officers and a dog handler, we managed to bring her to safety. 'Once we had released her, the woman was assessed by ambulance staff.' Hindi: अंडी क्लेटन (
She was stuck!
Hindi: Wo gaddh par upar aur niche ki taraf theek hi the - 50ft aawaj ke andar aur niche vale ke taraf. Wo fas gayi hain!
View full post on Translator Fun

Translation News

- The 21 Best
Hindi: वे बेहद फ्रोजन पैदा थे, वे निर्महा अवैतरक ै थे और र
I have made her take medicine and also, I have put some ointment on her leg. She is sleeping now. I will leave in a while and you will be fine by the time I return.
Hindi: Aap theek ho gaye ho. Main bhi medicine liya
Hindi: Woh biscuit khane ke baad kha rahi thi. 3. Translate the following text from Hindi to English: English: अब तो तुम्हारा व्यापार में ध
We were called to assist the police in the search for a man who had been reported missing in the area of Chilham Castle. We were launched to help with the search and a member of the rescue team walked from our base down to the search area. Unfortunately, the missing man was located by
In the first place, it is a large dog, and secondly, it was seen in a town centre of all places.
Hindi: यह कि ग अवश्य है, ना भलिशकता ह
Hindi: Vakil Technical Rescue Officer Peter Lau ne kaha: "Ruby ke liye bahut sahi baat hai ke woh aapni zindagi mein aapas me khush rahi hai."
- To translate a type of document that does not already have a translation available
But fortunately, she had a very strong will to survive and keep moving forward. She was able to stay alive for days.
Hindi: ज़रूरत के लिए था कि वह बहुत अच
She was given fluids, antibiotics and pain relief. She was also given a clean bill of health by the vet.
Hindi: रुबी को डेस्क और वेट का देखभाल कर
Hindi: हालांकि हिंदी अनुवाद में तीन बार मुझे बढ़ा डर आ रहा कि दु
She was a good 5 feet 10 inches tall, and had a frame that was unproportionately thin. She was blonde, and her skin was tanned and clear. She was beautiful, and she lived with me for a few months. I could not believe my luck.
Hindi
We were finally going home.
Hindi: यह बात अवश्य सुनिए, वह बार एक और जन्म लेकर आयी, ह
Hindi: उन्होंने कहा था कि, सफर के दौरान उसका शरीर ऐसा था जब तक उस
They saved our home.
Hindi: जी fire वाले सुअस अच्छे थे. वे घर हमारे पर save कर दिए।
Answer:

English:
Hindi: यहाँ जबाब जो कोई ने किया था वह बहुत चौड़ियाँ थी। 

english-to-hindi
They were all just so, so wonderful and we just cannot emphasise enough how grateful we are to them all. It’s just been absolutely tremendous and, obviously, we would like to thank them all on behalf of ourselves.
Hindi: Ham samajhte hain humare sare vah sab
Hindi: के आल्डर्सन गुहार ने बोला: "हम उसकी गिरना के लिए डर रहे थे,
I think we owe them a big thank you.
Hindi: फायरमैन्स बहुत ही अच्छे थे। मैं आप सभी को एक
She was very close to my house, but I didn't see her. She was in a very dangerous place and she could have been hurt. I'm really worried about her. I'm going to call her mother and ask her if she knows anything.
Hindi: Mera maan nahi
He was 32.
Hindi: मिक्स जेजर का बोला है कि वह कटी पेरी को बारे में नहीं चै
"He's a really great guy and he's the nicest person. And he's a really lovely guy," she said. "It was a lovely experience for me and I love him very much. He's a dear friend and he's a wonderful guy, and he's a beautiful artist and
Hindi: पेरी ने कहा है कि वे उनके बीच सैलाब के जरिए 18 साल के हैं।
Question 2
Hindi: वहन एक लंबी समय पहले है, और वह अच्छा लगा।

Thank you in advance.

बहुत
Perry, 31, said in an interview last month that Jagger approached her at a Los Angeles party in 2013 and asked her out. She said her response was, "I'm sorry, I'm just not into old guys." The statement from Jagger's representative quotes the Rolling Stones
Hindi: वो रिप डेलीवर कहता है कि, यह दोस्त को बुलाने के लिए कोई दूस
He sang with Mick Jagger at the closing concert in Miami.
Hindi: पेरी एक ऐसे सिंगर थे जिन्होंने इस साल Rolling Stones के टू
It's her first album since 2010.
Hindi: उनकी नई बड़ी एल्बम, “प्राइसम”, इस वीक प्रसिद्ध हो
of two futures
Hindi: जरग करेवन: एशयाफर ने ब्रेकअप से अंतर्निहित दो भावन
The Financial Times has decided that the UK economy is too reliant on financial services. They also claim that the UK is too dependent on the City. I think that is rubbish, but there is a bigger issue here. The institutions that dominate the global financial system are largely American. If the US decides to
This would mean that our border with England would have to be open to all free-travel zone citizens. The SNP has always opposed the open border with England and has campaigned to close it. Scottish independence would therefore be incompatible with this policy.
Hindi: - इस बार ह
The sound of the German tanks and planes from the Second World War. Memories of a summer holiday in the heavily mined German town of Hammelburg, 70 years ago.
Hindi: इंग्लिश: बर्विक ट्रेन
They claimed that, after 20 years of unlimited movement of people in the EEC, the net cost to the UK had been a mere £100 million. You could hardly call that a burden.
Hindi: Aisa hai, Strathclyde pablikh patr ka prash
The member states are not always free to launch a complaint against another member state. Nor is the Commission, which would much prefer to make a political decision than take a legal action. So much for the rule of law.
Hindi: और कोई नहीं
Scotland is a country of 5 million people, in a union of 530 million people. If Scotland left Britain, the UK could still be a major power, just like Germany, Italy and Spain.
Hindi: ये क्या बात है कि
No other
survivors.
Hindi: यहाँ मेरा एक नाटक नहीं है। और उसके साथ चलने वाले अ
I think the first time I spotted it was in a Home Office report from the 1970s.
Hindi: और जो जब तक कोशिश कर रहा हूँ जब त
The coyote is hardly a buffoon. In fact, it is the emperor and the emperor’s boy that have the last laugh.
Hindi: यह एक अच्छा एक सभी ने बाहर ड
Doesn't it have to consider its own interests? Isn't that the point of independence? And if England were to vote to leave Europe, surely that would encourage less-trusting countries to renegotiate their ties with London?
Hindi: क्यों शासनाद
If you are a fish out of water, you must learn to swim in your own surroundings. If you want to change the world, you must create the world you want in your own country first. If you want to better yourself, you must first become your own master. Isn't it so?
The grand vision of a "United States of Europe" is in danger of being crushed by the "Little Europe" of the Balkans and by a renewed nationalism. The creation of a common European market, in which goods and people can move freely, was to end the division between Western Europe and that
Only Greece is still a member of the euro, but only for a matter of time. At the same time, Germany has the strongest economy in Europe. The German economy is growing by 3 percent in the third quarter of 2011 and is preparing for a boom.
Hindi: इ
These parties, which are often linked to extreme right-wing movements, are very much on the rise. The EU and the euro have become a target for the extreme right and for the extreme left alike.
Hindi: या युवा में कई ग
This is a clear sign that the German people are not happy with the direction in which the EU is going.
Hindi: देशद्रोही यह साल राष्ट्रीय चुनावों म
The EU has also been opposed by some member states. These have been primarily within the European Free Trade Association - the UK, Denmark and Ireland. However, in 1973, the UK joined the EU and the other two EFTA states followed soon after. In the 1980s, the
The gradual erosion of public support for the European project has now been replaced by a deep-seated sense that things cannot go on like this.
Hindi: परिवर्तन के तथा अंतर्वस्था के प
There is a sense that Europe has become little more than an empire of banks, that it has become an international directorate that runs the economies of the continent and decides the fate of its peoples. This perception has been fanned by the recent moves of the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, and the French
The crisis has much more to do with the failure of the European Central Bank and of the so-called European Stability Mechanism to prevent the spread of the crisis across the euro zone in the summer of 2011. The euro is now on a final countdown to its disintegration. - Professor Amarty
Most of the other countries' politicians are now running scared. But it is their voters who will have to pay the price.
Hindi: बाकी के देशों को कर्‍यापति नहीं क
Without the possibility of currency devaluation, it is unable to compete with Germany in international markets. And without the possibility of currency devaluation, it cannot export its way out of deep recession. This is the double illusion which has now been shattered.
Hindi: अंतरराष
The first has already happened in Greece. The second is happening now in Spain. The ECB is the lender of last resort. But it cannot be the lender of first resort.
Hindi:
1) अध्ययन: अध्ययन:
Output per worker is low in Europe compared with the United States and Japan. There are many reasons for this, but one stands out: The quality of management. In the United States and Japan, management has been transformed over the past few decades into a highly professiona
As a result, it is being driven overseas. It has been estimated that, as a result of the decisions taken in Brussels, between 25,000 and 30,000 people have already lost their jobs in Germany, and between 8,000 and 10,000 in the United Kingdom
From the £9.6 billion of annual savings it is seeking, the Government is expecting RBS to generate £2 billion by the end of this year from cost reduction, which is 20% of its current annual costs. It is difficult to see how the Government can expect banks to deliver this
It is a disingenuous argument that the US will be the biggest loser from the shale revolution. To say that US jobs are going to be lost as a result of the shale gas boom is political propaganda. It is because of this political propaganda that Obama and his allies are trying to block the export
The political and economic crisis is exacerbating the tensions between the old and the new members. The new members have a lot to learn from the old ones, including the need for more fiscal discipline. The old members have a lot to learn from the new ones, including the need for better governance and a
As more and more countries around Europe joined the EU, it became a powerful political force. But the EU did not ever really have a strong economic base. It depended on the generosity of the United States to make up for the lack of economic strength within the union. The massive growth of the EU economies
Paris is challenged by the new power in the German political and economic sphere. The Germans have the advantage of a solid export sector, better structured public finances, and a smaller national debt. They have also been far more aggressive in the international markets than the French.
Hindi: एवं
The Socialist Party's humiliating defeat in the southern town of Brignoles was a major blow to the government of President François Hollande, who was hoping to regain the initiative after the resignation of his Prime Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault. 
Hindi: Result: Marine Le Pen's right-wing
However, the Front's problems are many, in particular the third place finish of 2002 presidential candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen and the fact the party is split on the question of allowing the Front to stand as a national party in the European Parliament.
Hindi: उन्हो
She’s weaponizing their anger, right under the noses of the leftists who have been so angry at Trump for doing the same thing.
Hindi: यह क्या लपेन कि उसके नई-जनम
She is calling for an alliance of Euro sceptics and nationalists.
Hindi: Wo yeh chahti hai ki 2019 ka EU election uske liye koi anti-EU aur anti-euro currency bloc tayyar kare, jo European Parliament me pahuch kar. Wo
The answer lies in the hands of the majority of voters in the countries that still have elections to come. A vote for the centre-right EPP or centre-left S&D would keep the Parliament from being dominated by a single political family.
Hindi: यदी, कि य
The euro is already dead, but the transition will be painful. The point is to get out of the euro now. If you're already in, sell euros and buy dollars while they're still worth holding (they're almost certain to be worth less than they are today). For every euro you have
As a result, it will be much less relevant to a borderless world. This is probably a good thing, but it is not a good time to be celebrating it.
Hindi: युरोप नहीं हटेगा, लेक
That’s the view of Evercore ISI’s Rich Yamarone, who said the breakup of the euro zone is inevitable and a good thing. It will create a new and more stable European Union, he said. The exit of France and southern Europe from the euro “will allow the euro to live
I expect also, that the UK will be disappointed in their hope of a close relationship with the US, a country which has an unenviable reputation for being a bully, and which has a tendency to act in a unilateral manner, and which has shown a contempt for international law. How much longer
The British government is already trying to convince China, which is about to overtake the japanese as the biggest British trade partner, to invest in British infrastructure and technology to reduce its reliance on the Chinese economy. India and China are Britain's biggest trading partners.
Hindi: लेकिन
Hindi: Kahan rahata hain Scotland?
Q6. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
English: देखना है कि नई जगह आज के दिन अच
In which case we might as well give up now and accept that we are going to be run from a council in Brussels.

Hindi: Hum kahin England (essentially) choos sakte hain. In which case hum chhod denge aur apne liye hume
The financial crisis has shown that there is no such thing as a globalised market. European integration is not an economic necessity; it is a historical choice. We should remind ourselves of this from time to time. The European Union is a club of sovereign nations.
Hindi: Hum apne ekon
I don’t know whether the Scots would be more or less likely to vote for independence if there was a looming Euro crisis. It would all depend on how the crisis was handled, I suppose. I think the one thing that would have a huge effect on Scottish attitudes would be a serious attack on the
The European Union would have to be re-dimensioned to become the real Europe of the Nations. Europe, a Continent of Nations, will remain the champion of internationalism.
Hindi: वर्तमान में अन्य समकाली
This would mean that we would have to base our policy on the economic interests of Europe and not the economic interests of the United States, which would no longer apply if we had our own currency. But this would also mean that we would have to emerge from our slumber and take on our own responsibility
It is also worth noting that the SNP's 2011 manifesto included a commitment to a referendum on independence, and that the SNP is the only party to consistently oppose austerity politics.
Hindi: नगर यूरोप में यह अत
We have a long history of working together to get the best for our people.
Hindi: इससे अच्छा अभी अगर एस्कॉटलड अलगना
, getting sick sooner?
Hindi: Shishu Mahatv: Pehli baar shishu roop me jyada ho jana, jaldi prasav ho jana? 

Jun 17, 2011 Rating Early puberty in children by: Anonymous Dear Dr
A study of more than 1,000 women published in the journal Pediatrics on Wednesday showed that white girls enter puberty at an average age of 12.8 years, compared to 12.0 years for African-American girls and 11.8 years for Hispanic girls. The study was based on
. Girls who have reached the age of 11 years might have other physical changes, such as breast development. Girls who have reached the age of 12 years might have visible pubic hair.
Hindi: Bodily changes don't mean that puberty is near. Girls who have reached the age of
for "man flu."
Hindi: जबकि शरीर की दृष्टि या अन्य रसायनिक गुणकारों के क
in girls.
Hindi: वजन गिराना एक कारण फैल जाना कि लड़कियों के लिए बच
as with girls. The average age at which boys develop reproductive organs is 13 years, and the average age at which they experience their first ejaculation is 13 years and 4 months. The average age at which a boy first masturbates is 12 years and 10 months.
Hindi:
She is currently a journalist for the Boston Herald and founder of the Young Family Network.
Hindi: Former CNN reporter Pat Etheridge is a journalist who specializes in children's health and family issues. She is currently a journalist for the Boston Herald and founder of the Young Family Network.
In this example,
Indian: Kya aurat ko apni beti ko 7 ya 8 saal ki umar mein is prakar ke andar se choty bikhri chizein aur kuchh bhi sharam ki bajaey hoti hain to usko kuch
“This is a result of an unhealthy weight status,” he says, “and not necessarily a sign of disease.” Dr. Kaplowitz’s studies of American girls show that the median age for breast development is now as young as 7.5 years. In 1980, the median age
"We have to be clear with parents and patients that the body reacts differently to hormones. Some people have no response, some people have a partial response, some people have a very late response, and some people actually have a delayed response."
Hindi: "Mujh ko bimarion ka
An average girl gets her first period at 12 years of age, down from an average of 14. Although the onset of puberty is a natural and healthy process, it is important that parents take the time to educate their children about the changes taking place in their bodies. These changes are a sign
In 1965, the mean age of menarche was 13.1 years, and in 2000, it was 12.8. But there is substantial variation in the timing of menarche. The age at menarche varies by race and ethnicity. African American girls
In other words, the average woman is having children at a younger age nowadays. The percentage of women who are having babies at 40 or older is also up.
Hindi: अमेरिका में लड़कियां ग
- In the text above, you are required to translate the word "menarche" from English to Hindi.
Hindi: पीरियड शुरू होते ही कृष्ण उम्र वर
If someone has only one breast bud, or a single pubic hair, or some other sign of puberty, then it is likely that this puberty will go on to normal completion. If, however, a girl has no breast bud, or no pubic hair, it is likely that her puberty will
It may be caused by a tumor on the pituitary gland or by a disorder of the hypothalamus.
Hindi: इस थेरीपी के उपरांत शीघ्रपद में ओं
If the child is no longer growing, a doctor may recommend that the child be evaluated for growth hormone deficiency.
Hindi: इन में से कई बार प्रक्रिया अधर्म प्रक्रिय
As a result of the hormone changes that occur in the body during pregnancy, many women find that it is harder to loose the extra pounds gained during pregnancy. Although this weight gain is normal, it can be difficult to lose after the baby is born. If you are planning on breastfeeding, it is especially
This is because early puberty triggers an earlier onset of menopause, when the ovaries stop making eggs and menstrual periods stop. This can happen as early as age 35, but more commonly in women who reach puberty at 11 or younger.
Hindi: मेषदों क
Treatment may be needed from 6 months to 3 years of age. Most children with precocious puberty will grow taller if given hormone therapy. If the child is already taller than average, there is a risk that the child may grow too tall. A child who is taller than average may be more
The mental health of the pregnant woman and her partner should be monitored. The couple should be counselled regarding the physical changes that will occur in the body during pregnancy, labour, and delivery. This counselling helps to normalize the experience of pregnancy and labour and prepares both the woman and her partner for the birth
He says, "This is a tough one. Girls don't want to be different, but having two years of puberty might be better than being on medication for the rest of their lives."
Hindi: Kaplowitz is cautious with medication but acknowledges, "suppressing puberty may alleviate behavioral issues and
It is probably a more significant issue in India than in the U.S., with its more modern, urbanized demographic and more rapid introduction of sanitation technologies. Many Indian parents simply don't want their daughters to use tampons, which are not usually available in Indian drugstores, because they think this will
"We hope that every girl can have a positive experience."
Hindi: "वे गर्भवती बनने के खतरे का सावधानी रख सकते ह
"I thought she had cancer or something. I didn't know that was normal. I was so ignorant. I went to the doctor and he said, 'That's normal.' I was kind of relieved, but I still didn't know what to do."
Hindi: "मुझ
She thought she was ill and needed medical help. She was scared. She thought her body would be cut open. Some girls, like mine, have a lot of questions and doubts. It’s important that we share information with them. We need to remove the taboo around menstruation. We need to
She had not been selected as a girl of the year, as she had hoped. Her parents tried to console her, but it was of no use. She refused to eat or talk. Her mother tried to find out the reason, but she would not tell. The days dragged on and she did
However, most of the theories are not supported by good evidence. There is no single cause of precocious puberty. In very young children, the most common cause is central precocious puberty (CPP), which means that the child’s brain is producing signals to start puberty. CPP may occur as a result
A few studies have found that girls who reach puberty early are more likely to smoke, use drugs and become sexually active, but many others have found no link between early puberty and risky behavior.
Hindi : तो कई तरह के तस्वीर
The age at which girls start puberty has dropped by a month since 1980 and for boys the drop is two months. This means that girls are now starting puberty at 10 years and 11 months and boys at 11 years, 3 months. This earlier onset of puberty is not caused
Kaplowitz argues that the success of a society is dependent on the health of its citizens. Kaplowitz argues that obesity contributes to a general decrease in health. Kaplowitz argues that the combination of diabetes, heart disease, and osteoarthritis is a perfect storm for an otherwise healthy person
As body fat increases, the age at which girls enter puberty decreases. This is the opposite of what is seen in boys, whose age of puberty increases with rising body fat.
Hindi: वह दो वर्ष के बच्चों क
I recommend that you continue to monitor his behavior for additional issues related to ADHD.
Hindi: और देखें के इस अनुभाग में अन्य के बारे में
This early development of breasts and other secondary sexual characteristics increases the chances that girls will be exposed to unwanted sexual advances, become pregnant, or develop breast cancer.
Hindi: यह देश में , एक्सक्लूजन औ
Some say that the four of them were later transformed into the four Vedas - Rik, Yajur, Sama and Atharva. Others say that the four of them were later transformed into the four Vedangas - Shiksha, Vyakarana, Chhandas and
But all of those factors are not equal. A study of more than 900 people in India found that, among poor rural girls, early puberty was linked to a higher level of the male hormone testosterone. The study, published online in the journal Pediatrics, said that girls who enter puberty early are at
In girls, a 2006 study estimated that 7 percent of 7-year-olds and 14 percent of 9-year-olds had started menstruating. But in boys, only 1 percent to 2 percent of the same age groups had begun producing sperm.
Hindi: एक
“In the real world, most children with autism spectrum disorders are going to be seen in primary care practices,” said Robert W. Block, MD, FAAP, chair of the AAP Committee on Children With Disabilities. “We need to do everything we can to improve diagnosis and treatment of these conditions.”
Some children have more pubic hair and acne, while others have less. It is not possible to predict when a child will develop these signs of puberty.
Hindi:
English: Acne and pubic hair occur in babies and young children.
Some children have more pubic hair and acne than others
"In 2008, the American Academy of Pediatrics said girls should start getting their first period at age 12 or 13, and boys should start getting their first ejaculation at age 14 or 15. But the data to back that up is lacking. We don't know if that's
The pediatrician is a good source of information about how to discuss sex, drugs, violence, and other sensitive topics with their child. The pediatrician can also help identify the child’s developmental needs and provide the appropriate guidance for the child’s age group.
Hindi: Parents ko pata hai ki
"If it is a parent, it might be appropriate to say: You know your son has been having problems with alcohol and I think the time has come." Hindi: "मैं यहां बोल रहा हूँ कि
When you remain calm, you will be more likely to take a positive approach to discipline. If you are able to remain calm, you will be able to help your child learn how to control his or her behavior. In addition, you will be able to teach your child to be responsible for his or
They need to know their bodies and minds are developing normally, and that they are likely to grow into strong women.
Hindi: लड़कियां बहुत जल्दी बल विकसित हो
It was the highest drop in temperatures in the last five days, the Met Department said. The minimum temperature on Thursday was recorded at 12.3 degrees Celsius, which was 3.1 degrees lower than Wednesday's 15.4 degrees. Maximum temperature was 29.4 degrees Celsius,
The rain was cold. The cold wind was accompanied by rain. The rain was accompanied by wind. The wind was cold. The cold made people feel cold. The wind was accompanied by rain. Cold wind was accompanied by rain. The rain was cold and the wind was cold. The rain and wind
It was cold. The weather is cold. A few days back the weather was very hot. It was so hot that boys and girls were playing in the water. They also went to the water parks. The people who had air conditioners put them on because it was so hot. Now it is
Hindi: पहले दीपावली का बाद दरवाजे खोलकर दिनदर्शन करते थे 5. Translate the following text from English
The sun made them feel hot.
Hindi: लोग दोपहर में सूरज के सशक्त नमरकर पसरते देखे जाते
The sun was unable to burn the clouds and the clouds were unable to keep the sun away from the earth. Can this be the cause of the climate change?
Hindi: Jab tak kachchhit hawa thik nahin rahegi tab tak bimarion ka shikaar h
Hindi: बच्चे भी वर्षा स्वेटर वाली शॉट की तरह स्कूल जाते थे थोड़
The humidity levels in the city are expected to increase during the day.
Hindi: एएफएई वीजा विभाग के अनुसार शनि को उत्तर
Hindi: 7.8 बीमारी बराबर गर्मियों की वजह से नहीं हुई. 7.8 बीमारी म
It will rain in the evening.
Hindi: According to the weather department the skies will be cloudy. It will rain in the evening.
7. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: I would like to go to school.
Hindi: I would like to go to school.
Hindi:

अंग्रेजी : बड़ी खरीदों के लिए झेट बनाने वाले ट्रांसपोर
Airbus said it had written to Boeing, asking the U.S. plane maker to stop making claims about its own seat width, which it said was a "false and misleading" claim. "Airbus has written to Boeing asking them to immediately stop making false and misleading claims about seat width on the
The International Air Transport Association, a global grouping of more than 230 airlines, is pushing for seats to be 17 inches for passengers seated in the middle of the cabin, the same width as those at the window and aisle, according to a document seen by Bloomberg. That would require a total seat
“We are advocating for a minimum 18-inch seat width,” Airbus Chief Operating Officer John Leahy said on Tuesday, speaking to reporters after an industry conference. “Because if you have a minimum width, then people will have to buy at least that width,” he said, noting that some airlines already
The 777-9X and the A350-1000 are competing head-on to fly between Asia and North America, with the A350-1000 also targeting the Middle East and Europe.
Hindi: इसे समर्थक के लिए
The Airbus A380-800, the world's largest commercial airliner, is a 10-abreast design, with three seats on each side and two aisles. But Boeing, which is designing a similar aircraft, the 747-8i, is offering a nine-abreast option
Boeing said it is building the airplane with a design that can carry up to 426 passengers in a single class. Boeing projects worldwide demand for 3,175 of the planes over the next 20 years.
Hindi: बोयज़ के ने क
That's about 20 more passengers than the current version of the 787 will carry. Airbus says Boeing can't fit 10-abreast seats into the 787.
Hindi: एयरबस ने अपनी अनुभ
Often, the most hard-hitting ads are from Boeing, the world’s second-largest aircraft manufacturer. In 1947, the company took out an advert that ridiculed Douglas Aircraft Company’s new jet-powered DC-7 passenger plane.
Hindi: प्लेन जानक
The UAE government has a 60 percent stake in Emirates, so the future of the UAE economy depends on whether the airline stays in Dubai, or moves to another Emirate, like Abu Dhabi.
Hindi: अब, एयरबस ने द
Hindi: कभी यह उदाहरण दिखाया गया है जो एक नई वीडियो या परीक्ष
"It's the same distance as our A380, but it's on a smaller aircraft than we make."
Hindi: "Boeing ne jo long-distance flying karte hain, wo seats ke narrow hain jo regional turbo-props ke ke niche hain," Boeing ki sales chief John
Airline seats are not getting any wider and it is a real challenge to find the perfect balance between the size of the seat, the space, the legroom and the pitch.
Hindi: Jeetna ke liye aapki diet badal rahi hai. Lekin airlines seat
Obesity is now at epidemic proportions - more than 75 per cent of Americans are overweight or obese. The medical consequences are also alarming. Heart disease, diabetes and cancer now account for three-quarters of all deaths among Americans and are the country's biggest killers. This is partly because these diseases are closely linked
It’s 38.8 inches for the average 21st-century American woman.
Hindi: एचटीएम.एकअंडरवियरजुनियन 21शतकी
Hindi: एयरबस में विश्वसनीय कंपनी एक वर्ष में 50 लाख बढ़िया
The extra space in standard economy seats also helped passengers’ sleep quality by 35 per cent, said the study, published in the Journal of Aerospace Technology and Management. The study, commissioned by the A380 aircraft manufacturer, looked at the impact of seat width and legroom on sleep quality and fatigue levels
The debate was sparked by a report last week in the Air Transport World magazine, which said Boeing, using a new measurement system, had found that Airbus A340-600, the world's largest passenger plane, could carry fewer passengers than the European planemaker had claimed.
Hindi: Boeing ne Airbus
It also depends on the person sitting next to you. It also says that research shows cabin experience depends on more than the width of a seat. It also depends on the person sitting next to you.
Hindi: यह भी सुनाई देता ह
"We believe that they know best." Hindi: "यह आपको बंदरगाह की जरूरत देता है और उन्हें निय
They want to tell us. They don't want us to tell them what makes them profitable. They want to tell us.
Hindi: Unka maan kahati hai ki hum unhein apne liye profitable banane ke liye kya kya sikhaaye. Un
The boy is taller than me. Neither he nor I am to blame.
Hindi: वे अपना व्यावसाय जानते हैं जैसे एक बच्च
That is because airlines are buying a growing number of seats in bulk and using them to fill the planes with value-conscious flyers. Next year, the sales of such seats are expected to outnumber individual ones for the first time, according to airport and airline executives. The shift is being spurred by the recession,
That could help the U.S. win the diplomatic campaign to block a European Union ban on carbon emissions on flights to and from Europe.
Hindi: अर्थात विवाद के बीच एक बढ़ी
The A320neo and 737 MAX 8 offer more legroom, while the 737 MAX 9 and A330neo have more seats. The A320neo and 737 MAX 8 will also offer a wider cabin, and both manufacturers are pushing their galleys and lavatories to
Airbus claims the A350-1000 is 20 per cent more fuel-efficient than the 777-300ER, while the Boeing 777-9X is 25 per cent more fuel-efficient. Both Airbus and Boeing claim 20 per cent better efficiency per seat in their latest twin-engined
A 10-abreast configuration would not be possible in an original 777 because it was designed with a center fuel tank. Boeing claims that the 777X, with its new configuration, will not have to carry as much fuel. But customers have told us they want the new airplane to have
The larger aircraft will need to be accompanied by a larger service network. However, the new aircraft will have less fuel and maintenance costs.
Hindi: एक बार पहले से अध क वृद्धि यह
"But it's not a proven concept. You have to do a lot of testing and validation." 1. इसके लिए बॉयलर इसके काम करने की राशि
Mr. Pratt said that the new plane is designed to help airlines make more money in a number of ways, including adding seats, which is a key factor in reducing fares.
Hindi: उसी ही दूसरे दृष्टी
"Eighteen inches is a little bit of a marketing ploy by both sides to say that they can put more passengers on board. It has more to do with the business of the airline than the comfort of the passengers."
Translation: "एटीएच सी
A typical seat comprises a seat base, a seatback and a seat cushion. The seatback is made of plastic and can be reclined by a lever in front of the passenger. The seat cushion is usually made of foam plastic covered in fabric.
Hindi: एयरब
But it’s getting increasingly difficult to find a big, roomy motor home with a bathtub, and many manufacturers have stopped making them.
Hindi: जे ट एक फोर्स ने आदर्श रखे
For example, low-cost carriers such as Ryanair, which has been compared to bus transportation, have a weight of 9-12 kg per seat, 75-150 percent more than the average weight of the average high-density seats. This is mostly due to the fact that low-cost airlines are
"We have not sold a 10-abreast configuration," Airbus Chief Operating Officer Customers John Leahy said in an interview. "I am not saying we won't in the future." The 10-abreast 777-9X, as Boeing terms it, would be designed to compete
However, it now says it will offer customers a fully customizable cabin in order to meet the growing desire for a more personalized experience. The solution? A multi-purpose seat which can be used as a seat, a shelf, a table, a bed, and an armrest. The revolutionary new seat can
The company was left without a partner to build its next generation of jetliners after Boeing Co. decided last year to end its partnership with Airbus. The 777X is the 777's successor and the world's largest twin-engine jet. The plane is expected to make its first flight by the
Hindi: नए निक्टोन वैक्सीन के जरिये चुगेरी का आनंद ले सकता है
The vaccine has already been successfully tested on mice and guinea pigs and could be available for human use in a few years’ time. It will be aimed at smokers who want to quit.
Hindi: विषय: निकेटिन वै
This study is especially important given the potential to treat nicotine addiction in humans.
Hindi: एक सीड वैक्सिन चिकित्सकीय तरीके से मधुरक
“We believe that in the future we will have a therapy that will prevent deaths from this virus,” he said. “It’s not a vaccine, but it’s certainly something that will help people.”
Hindi:
Bharat: Aap kuch hi mahino baad test karne ke
"This vaccine will not replace other methods that can help smokers quit, but can play an important role in a stop-smoking program."
Hindi: हमें, हमें इस प्रकार का वैक्सीन प्र
When the vaccinated person is exposed to nicotine, these antibodies attack the nicotine, neutralising it.
Hindi: नई वैक्सीन में निकोटीन की ज़ायत श
This is what can be detected in the blood of infected people,
Hindi: वीरस सेल को बचाने और दूर करने के लिए वीरस को स
Hindi: यह तो कांग्रेस की यहां जबरदस्ती में नाकने वाले आवाज़ आय
The control mice were less active.
Hindi: यह तथाकथित है कि शुक्राणु बचाने के लिए बैचलर यह
Hindi: लेकिन मिज को अपने वैक्सीन की वजह से रुक गए थे, जबकि कुछ
Susceptibility to HIV infection is determined by the expression of genes that code for immune system proteins and by the presence of specific alleles in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene. The HLA system is an important component of the human immune system, which controls the ability to reject foreign cells
This vaccine has antibodies that are not the same as antibodies found in other vaccines. These antibodies can bind to T cells.
Hindi: Previous tobacco vaccines failed because they contained antibodies. This vaccine has antibodies that are not the same as antibodies found in other vaccines. These antibodies can bind to T cells.
The jab had to be given daily, which meant more than 300 vaccinations were needed per person to keep antibody levels topped up between jabs. After years of research, scientists have developed a jab that offers lifelong protection against the dengue virus that causes severe flu-like illness in humans. The researchers
The large-scale production of antibodies from mammalian cells is currently expensive, but the new vaccine could cut these costs to less than 50p per dose.
Hindi: लेकिन नव वैक्सीन की कीमत
It took a long time to develop the vaccine, and the research team had to work out how to combine the nicotine with the body's own immune system to make it work.
Hindi: Prof. Crystal कहा था कि अगर एक भ
It should be used only when all other smoking cessation aids have failed. It should not be used by nonsmokers, children, or women who are pregnant or breast-feeding.
Hindi: Lekin aisa kahin na kahin usse aur vighatna karne
"They will be smoking because they want to, not because they have to."
Hindi: "Jab tak jee chahega tab tak jee chalega" - Motivational, Hindi Proverb
Explanation: "They will know if they start smoking again, they will receive
"The results are interesting and they show that there is a link - if you have an infection in your lung you are more likely to get asthma," said Dr. Chris Griffiths of the Royal College of Physicians, who was not involved in the study.
Hindi: ब्रिट
Hindi: टाइगर्स की मौत का कारण निपटाने में हमेशा अधिक विशेषज्ञों क
Hindi: वन विभाग, एक राजस्वी उत्तर देते हुए, रोग या पूरे तरीके से
The carcass was found with bullet wounds. The postmortem of the tigress was conducted by the forest veterinarian at the Ramnagar Forest department's laboratory. The postmortem report stated that the tigress died due to a gunshot injury. The tigress was 11 years
Hindi:
English: This is a tiger body. Hindi:
English: It is not known when the tiger died. Hindi:
English: Investigation is on. Hindi: The tigress body was found in a village in Kuno Palpur Wildlife Sanctuary. The body has been sent for post mortem
The autopsy revealed that the tigress was a 7-8-year-old female, and weighed 110 kgs. The cause of death was a gunshot wound to the head.
Hindi: परिवर्तन के तथा अवत
The report also mentions that the tigress was pregnant at the time of her death.
Hindi: जब तक आगामी बीजगढ़ की अस्पतालों के
Hindi: Yehi wajah hai ki tigress ki maut ke karan uski maut ka bahut sahi karan nahi pata chal paya. 5. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
English: आजकल क
The forest department has not even given the date of her death. Hindi: Department ke adhikarion ne bahut asubhata shabd diye hain tigress ki maut ke bare me. Forest department ne bhi death date tak nahi diya. 3
If confirmed, the post-mortem report will be amended.
Hindi: पर मृत्यु रिपोर्ट में रोग का होना होगा तो उसका
He said that the tigress had crossed the boundary of the reserve here. After that, the people started. The forest department has sought the help of the police to deal with the people. He said that the tigress has been trapped in the net. Police will deploy to remove the t
A post-mortem will reveal the cause of death. The house is in the name of two brothers. There are no other close relatives. Their marriage was arranged. The girl was a school teacher, who had been in the job for two years. The husband was a law student. The marriage was
The police also collected the clothes worn by the deceased and sent them to be tested for the presence of poison. Both the tests were negative. Police also found the deceased to be suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes. After the post-mortem the body of the deceased was also handed over to the relatives
Hindi: Tripodi ने ओबेइड के द्वारा प्रभावित नहीं होने की प्रतीक्षा करने पर
Mr Tripodi resigned from parliament and his ministerial position on Wednesday, following revelations that he had used his influence to help a businessman whose company had been fined by the regulator. The Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) has already referred the matter to the police, but is now also investigating Mr Trip
Mr Tripodi told the Independent Commission Against Corruption on Wednesday that he could not remember a conversation with Mr Obeid in 2007 about the leases.
Hindi: श्री जो ट्रापोडी ने कहा कि उ
The ICAC told a Supreme Court judge that it had issued a summons to Mr Obeid, who is still a sitting member of parliament, to appear before it on July 31.
Hindi: संगठन प्रवाह निर्व
Mr Tripodi resigned as NSW treasurer on Tuesday, after the release of a damning report into his handling of the Obeid-related property deals.
Hindi: अब इसको बताया जा रहा है कि Mr
This resulted in a delay to the bids’ opening date. On 1 February 2013, the government said it would sell nine exploration blocks in an auction scheduled for 2013, but postponed the lease sale to 2014. The delay was a result of the court order and the government
For smaller leases, higher rents were imposed. The rents were set at a level which would allow the lessees to pay the rent and get a return of 10% on their investment.
Hindi: उसके बाद ये लिसी
The Obeids were also part of a new regime that allowed them to avoid paying tax on rent. The Obeids’ interest in Circular Quay was at the centre of a massive corruption investigation involving the NSW Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC).
Hindi: 2009 में
But in March 2010, he told the state's upper house of parliament: "I'm not in favour of public tender for infrastructure, because I don't see how it can be done and, also, I don't see the advantage of a public tender." Hindi: में
Mr Tripodi, the former minister responsible for the Lands Department, said he did not see any problem with Mr Obeid's intervention.
Hindi:

Translation: 1/1

Sign in

Need help? accounthelp@everything2.com

Recommended Reading

About Everything2
Mr Tripodi told ICAC he had called Mr Dunn to make sure that the decision to lease the port land was not an error. Mr Dunn told ICAC he had been called by Mr Tripodi seeking assurances that a lease was not a mistake. Mr Tripodi told ICAC the call came from
"The matter was the development of the commercial lease policy," Mr Tripodi replied. "Was the matter being discussed in the course of these telephone conversations the development of the commercial lease policy," Assistant Commissioner Anthony Whealy asked Mr Tripodi. "The matter was the development of the commercial lease policy,"
"I don't think we should."

Hindi: "Nahi," Mr Tripodi ne kaha tha. "Mai nahi janta ke hum kya karain."

"मैं एक बार अगले साल भ
You must have misunderstood. I'm sure we'll find out the truth if we look it up.
Hindi: ये क्या बात है आपकी तुम मेरा संदेश क्या
I was not aware of these loans being made.
Hindi: नहारहा हूँ, नहारहा तुम्हारे और अम्बेडकर से बी
Hindi: भारतीय वायुसेना अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन (IAF) का सैनिकों ने
The official says the target was a shipment of weapons bound for Hezbollah in Lebanon. The shipment included SA-17 anti-aircraft missiles, according to the official. The official says the attack was ordered by President Obama and was carried out by Israeli planes flying from a base in another Middle Eastern country. The
The target was in the vicinity of a hospital, but it was not damaged, he said. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the media.
Hindi: इस दवर मे उपग्रहाध
The planes were flying at altitudes of from 22,000 to 24,000 feet when the missiles hit them.
Hindi: Associated Press ne Russian-made SA-125 missiles ki tarah ki chhappiyan ki target batayi hai. Yunhi chhappiyan
The latest attack was a rare public admission by Israel of an operation that targeted Iranian-made weapons bound for Hezbollah in Lebanon.
Hindi: इस राफेल ने बार-बार उत्तर सब्स
before they can be sponsored for residency, under a plan to be backed by the Coalition, Prime Minister Julia Gillard will announce on Wednesday.
Hindi: आर्थिक सरकार को काम कर रहे देशभ
Immigration Minister Chris Bowen said the government was looking at whether to require overseas workers to prove they were genuine employees. Mr Bowen said the government was examining how to ensure that foreign workers did not replace Australian workers in the workforce, in the wake of concerns raised by the opposition, employers and unions. He said
457s should only be granted to employers who can demonstrate that there are no skilled Australians available and that the position is critical to the business. This would be a common sense reform that would put Australians first. 
Hindi:
English: क्या यह परीक
The paper is a discussion paper on the temporary migration of skilled workers, which has been dubbed "the Pacific solution" by the opposition. Labor has promised to implement the paper, but has also promised to look at ways to reduce the reliance on temporary workers.
Hindi: आज व
"The fact is, Australia's economy needs more, not less, immigration to grow. The immigration program is as important to Australia's future as education, infrastructure and innovation."
Hindi: "“Dusron ka kharidne wale ko laali sarkar” aur “A
But it was also my intention to create a metaphor for the new Europe. For me, this is a new icon.
Hindi: Historically, yeh us waqt tha jab white labour ko protect kiya jaata tha - aur agar kahi na kahi us historic artifact ka koi
The consultation paper outlines 12 measures that were previously considered by former Immigration Minister Chris Bowen.
Hindi: नहीं पर उप्रयुक्त पुस्तक में बताए गए 12 क
The changes include financial penalties for journalists who reveal identification of asylum seekers, restrictions on media access to immigration detention centres and the use of interpreters who are not accredited by the Immigration Department. The changes include allowing detention centres to bar journalists who reveal the identity of asylum seekers. Mr O'Connor said the changes
The "genuineness" criteria is not, in my opinion, appropriate for the sponsorship or nomination of subclasses 457 and 186 visas. As stated above, the Department's policy is to "not scrutinise the genuineness of the employee/owner/relative relationship".
Hindi:
Business groups have said that the government should consider a more flexible system where businesses could nominate employees for permanent residency after three years of employment.
Hindi: व्यवसाय में भी निर्धारित कर सकत
Hindi: अब तक ये बात तो यही है कि एक 35 साल की स्रीलंका नागरिक प्रमाण प
The man's cousin, who lives in Brisbane, had planned the trip, which he said was to give his relative "some time to think".
Hindi: वह शायद दो पुराने पिता की मृत
Police are investigating the incident near the small village of Madang, about 350 miles north of the capital, Port Moresby.
Hindi: ऑसट्रयलियन अधिकारियों ने वह
The study will examine how the benefits from the new rail line between London and Birmingham can be maximised to Scotland. The UK government said that it wants the study to assess the wider economic benefits and how they will be delivered, including the impact on the Scottish economy and the surrounding regions.
Hindi:
It also proposes high-speed services to the Midlands and London run via the Trent Valley, and trains will terminate at London Euston, Leicester, Sheffield, Liverpool and Glasgow.
Hindi:
1. HS2 Ltd की कार्य का अनुमान म
Her words came as she announced the project's preferred route.
Hindi: Transport minister Baroness Kramer ne kaha ki ye project hamein world ka saamna karega. Uska sawaal aane wala hai ki yah project kis tarah se hamein United
"This is a significant moment, a major milestone, in taking forward plans to develop the Borders Railway as a vital economic asset for the whole of southern Scotland," he said. Mr Brown said the government was also working on a "magnificent investment which will be the East Coast Main Line electrification
It will enable services to be run at 225 mph (362 km/h) accelerating from 0 to 186 mph (300 km/h) in 2 minutes and 16 seconds. It will deliver a new high speed rail system that will connect all the main conurbations in the country and
From the station there will be a direct connection to the airport by the “Aerobus”.
Hindi: डेज़ फ़ाइनल के अंत में लाइन्स मैं
The decision to raise the estimate came after HS2 Ltd, the company responsible for building the line, was told to make further cuts to its budget. The government has ordered that the project be delivered on budget even if it means cutting back on the services offered by the train company. The cost of the
However, this should not be at the expense of the planned HS2 rail line. The UK government is committed to delivering HS2, which will be the backbone on which the rest of the UK’s rail network will be able to grow. The planned HS2 service would provide faster, more frequent services
It would also allow for the possibility of a hub airport to the west of London allowing for a London to Glasgow or Edinburgh journey time of about five hours.
Hindi: Yeh is vyakhya ko include karne ki koshish karega, ki ek bar aisa hua,
Hindi: जनपद में यह मंच तालीम करता है कि यह पहला एक संगठनीय सर्वस्व
It will transform our economy and the lives of people across the country. It will create jobs, support businesses and boost growth. It will tackle congestion, improve reliability and help us reach our climate change goals. It will help us build back better.
Hindi: Hum HS2 ko vikas
Without it, we will not be able to deliver the Crossrail project. Without it we will have a serious risk of reducing our carbon emissions. The project to which I refer is electrification of the Great Western Main Line.
Hindi: Agar yeh sansadan (electrification) n
The economic case is also being made for the £50bn project.
Hindi: यह सभी भारत के लिए अपनी नई दृष्टि तक पहुं
Hindi: इस लिंग मे आलिस्टेर करमारी सेक्रेटरी ने कहा: "आज़ारी नौकरी
The SNP transport minister said: "It's impossible to effectively link the high-speed rail network in Edinburgh, Glasgow and the west of Scotland to the rest of the country without including Scotland in the HS2 scheme."
Hindi: अर्थात एक बार
Hindi: उन्होंने कहा : “जो भी विकास के लिए उच्च स्तरीय रेल योजना ब
The report we have just released is the first step to a bigger ambition, a bigger vision for Scotland over the next 20 years. It's for our citizens and it's for our businesses. And we intend to work closely with the UK Government and other stakeholders to make sure that we meet that big
We will be seeking to engage the Russian government at an appropriate level, and in line with UK practice, to discuss the incident.
Hindi: मैं रूसी सरकार के अनुपालन के दौ
. The Australian government has decided to retain the existing electronic devices rules for now, despite the United States decision to allow some devices to be used during take-off and landing. The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) is investigating an incident last week in which a passenger was injured during a hard landing on
The US Federal Aviation Administration has proposed relaxing rules on the use of personal electronic devices during flights in the USA to allow passengers to use tablets and e-readers during take-off and landing. The US is the biggest market for the Australian airline Virgin Australia, so the move to relax the rules is being closely
The FAA had previously said that devices had to be switched off during takeoff and landing, but the agency said it would now allow airlines to set their own rules. "The FAA will consider requests from the aviation industry for changes to existing regulations and policies in order to allow greater use of portable electronic devices
The Transport Committee is calling on the EU to bring the ban on using electronic devices in-flight into line with the rest of the world. With 3G/4G coverage rapidly expanding and the cost of data plans plummeting, it is time to bring this anachronism to an end.
Hindi: अमेरिकी वायुसेवक ने एक बड़ी बजट के आरक्षण के लिए यून
Hindi: Civil Aviation Safety Authority (जनरल व्यवस्था अधिनियम संदर्भ नीति) भी इस एनून में
Hindi: "एसएसए पर वाहनों में इलेक्‍त्रॉनिक दुकानों की उपयोग से सं
“We will work together with CASA to make sure that any change does not interrupt flight operations, and we will look to ensure that any changes are not unduly burdensome for our customers,” it said.
Hindi: वर्जिनजो ने फ
"We have spoken to the authorities and they are working with us to get a CASA exemption on the use of electronic devices." Hindi: "Hum wi-fi ko dawara aapni plane mai chalane ki bahut hi aabhari hote hai kyoki hum aapne
The Australian airline said in a statement that it was working with the government and health authorities to find the best way to resume travel. The rules are crucial for the airline’s business, as most passengers travel between Australia and New Zealand. Many people also travel between the two countries for holidays.
Hindi:
"In fact, we have no plans to change it at all."
Hindi: "Humari current policy hai ki Electronic devices ko take-off aur landing ke waqt bhi use kar sakte hai. Agar koi nahi hai, to wo koi nahi hai. In fact
Hindi: FAA ke ruling ko yeh American airlines ke liye apply karta hai.

share|improve this question

edited Dec 15 '10 at 12:19

RegDwigнt♦
66.4k24222317

asked Dec 15
However, we are always interested in regulatory developments that could benefit passengers and we will certainly be taking a close look at the FAA's decision and the reasons behind it. However, we are always interested in regulatory developments that could benefit passengers and we will certainly be taking a close look at the FAA's decision
Older aircraft may be replaced by more modern ones. For newer aircraft, the ruling may not impact their lease rates. The impact is likely to be relatively limited, given the small number of aircraft affected. Despite this, the ruling may embolden other countries to pursue similar approaches. In this context,
”
Source: http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2013-08-08/news/41216850

Hindi: बिल्डर्स को अपने प्लान्स को टॉ
"This policy allows for the continued operation of all aircraft currently in use by U.S. airlines and is consistent with international regulations."
Hindi: "एक विमान की तलाश करते हैं, उसके
Kindly pay attention to these instructions. Devices should be turned off immediately after landing.
Hindi: इस प्रकार के स्थिर तथा बाधित समय में लैंड
They also suggested that the stowage of devices should not cause any obstruction to the crew in case of an emergency evacuation.
Hindi: ग्रुप ने अधिक वजन के स्थान पर चण
Hindi: इतिहास की किसी भी खोज करने वाले के चिन्ह भारत में शौचालय
The 34-year-old Tamilwoman, who is married to a Singaporean Indian, says she has been visiting the pawnshop for the past three months to pawn her gold jewellery and use the money to pay her children"s school fees and for other bills. She is not alone. Several other women like
"I really need money to pay the bills, the school fees and to get the car fixed. I can't go to work because I have to look after the children and the house. I don't want to get into debt, but I have no option."
Hindi: "mera pat
“I am worried that my son and daughter will not have enough money for their education. The interest rate of the bank loan is so high that it will be difficult to pay off the loan. I am always in debt and my children have to help me pay off the debt. I try to save
This is the first offering in the sector to go public in 40 years, according to Bloomberg data. The company is offering 100 million shares at between 21 cents and 28 cents per share.
Hindi: वहीं, ऐसा चाँद
The home-grown pawnbroking industry is offering 1.5 per cent a month on the value of items pawned, or about 18 per cent a year. The interest rate on unsecured bank loans is pegged at about 2 per cent a month, or about 24 per
Carrefour, a French retail chain, charges 25 per cent for a 12-month loan at its store in a shopping mall in the city-state.
Hindi: Uttar Pradesh ke pratibad ke samay main kabhi kabhi aadhar par bhi tarakki ke ad
They can lend up to 90% of the value of the pawned item. The borrower is given a receipt with a unique number, which is used to redeem the pawned item (usually after a few months). The borrower and pawnbroker sign a contract in which the pawnbroker undertakes not
The average size of a loan is 1,000 rupees, but in many cases the firm is willing to lend up to 10,000 rupees. Pawnshops even offer loans to those without a credit history. The average loan period is three months, but some shops will extend it to
And the companies that run the shops are thriving too.
Hindi:
Yadi apko kisi bhi article, essay, naukri ke liye essay karna hai to contact me.
Essay on my hobby in Hindi
Essay on my hobby in Hindi by Rahul Technologies
Essay on my
Since 2000, average household debt in Asia has risen 15%, to 53% of gross domestic product. The figure is still far below the 167% in the U.S. The average household debt ratio to GDP in the U.K. and Japan is 86%, compared with
India, the Philippines and Indonesia had the lowest ratios, the report said.

Hindi: यह बोला कि मलयालम, थाईलैंड और सिंगापुर म
India was close behind at 79 per cent, up from 61 per cent in 2008. China was third at 42 per cent, down from 46 per cent in 2008.
Hindi: बाहरी तरीके से य
The economy grew a modest 2.1 per cent in the second quarter from the same period a year ago. The Thai Baht fell 1.5 per cent against the US dollar and 2 per cent against the Euro, despite moves by the Bank of Thailand to support the currency. The
The ISM manufacturing index fell below 50 for the second month in a row, to 49.5 in July, well below expectations. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.
Hindi: गुरुवार की कागज़ी
"The online business boom is a godsend."
Hindi: "Khatarnak kadam hai ki kiya online business boom ko aapne bharatiya samaj ke bich aapne hamare karyakshetra ke liye iski sarvajit
Further, the unavailability of credit and the common perception that gold is a safe investment have also attracted people to pawnbrokers.
English: Historically high prices for gold in the past two years have added to the rush to pawn personal belongings, as people take the opportunity to cash in the value of
The items are usually jewellery. The pawned gold fetches top dollar in the world market.
Hindi: था है : शामाल बिक्री विक्री पाए जाने वाले
He says the shop is seeing an increasing number of customers who pawn their gold items.
Hindi: “चांदी की सिक्की देख लो, लाखों का कर दें ट
EasyMoney is owned by the Siam Commercial Bank, a unit of Thailand’s oldest bank, which is often considered a bellwether for the country’s economy.
Hindi: थायलण में तीसरे बजते ब
The pawn industry has become more organised and professional, with shops like his offering loans at annualised interest rates of 1.5 per cent to 3 per cent in Singapore, and 6 per cent to 10 per cent in Malaysia. The pawn industry has become more organised and professional, with
The rest of the money from the IPO will be used to finance the expansion of its business in India and Indonesia, as well as a new project in Malaysia.
Hindi: उम्रदाता को उसकी ये बात य
“When you pawn something, you can still use it,” she says. “It’s a service that offers more than just money.”
Hindi: जैसा कि कुछ डिस्काउंट लेंडर
"But gold is a hard asset and does not ordinarily have the same risks as other forms of lending."
Hindi: "Karsikar ke khilaf ke karobari ki na moolyanty ki janae ki shart par logon ne alag alag p
The growth of pawnbroking in the country is driven by modernisation and the creation of more pawnbrokers. The increased number of pawnbrokers in the country is also driven by the rising demand. However, the lack of credit infrastructure is limiting the pawnbroking market growth. The pawnbro
They may also be wealthy, but have no need of a loan. They may be looking for a short-term loan to tide them over until they receive a large sum of money. For example, many people take out loans to pay for their holidays or their new car. They may also be the rich
They are also able to reclaim their valuables for a small fee. (From: http://www.todayonline.com/articles/389836.asp)
Hindi: सिंगापुर के अधिक अमीर लोगो
We see customers ranging from the affluent to the average shopper. We see customers shopping on credit and we see customers paying cash. We see customers purchasing on impulse and we see customers purchasing on budget. We see customers who are brand conscious and we see customers who just want to buy clothes. We see customers
"The loan amounts are small, about 50,000 yuan, and the duration short, about six months."
Hindi: "उन्हें यह धनवान लोगों से मिलता ह
So they come to the car wash and they wash the car, and they get out, and they have a couple of hundred dollars in their pocket. It’s amazing. It’s great.
Hindi: Bahut baar kuchh gyan hota hai, aur jyada der se
It is one of the most sought-after parties of the year. A lot of people are invited, including the President Pranab Mukherjee and the Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.
Hindi: यह निता अंबानी, भ
She has invited me to her birthday party. The party is on the 6th of this month.
Hindi: मुम्बई में अपने जन्मदिन पार्टी में ज
The program will start with speeches, followed by music, games and a meal, and will finish with a dance.
Hindi: उसने इस अवसर पर एक बड़ा उदय का
The stars were to attend the party of Ambani’s son Akash Ambani and Shloka Mehta. The stars who have arrived in Jodhpur are Shahrukh Khan, Gauri Khan, Aamir Khan, Kiran Rao, Karan Johar, Mala
The stars were in a great mood to celebrate the festival of lights with their friends and colleagues.
Hindi: इन दिखाओं उपलब्ध मिलने वाले करिश्मा कप
And from this party, the biggest news was that Mr. Bajaj, who used to sit in the corner of the corner, must be very happy.
Hindi: आप सोच सकते हैं कि ऐसे बड
. The Commonwealth and State Governments have agreed to a $325 million rescue package to help Tasmania’s financially struggling health system. The deal, announced by Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Tasmanian Premier Lara Giddings, will see the Federal Government contribute $140m and the State Government match it. The
The Tasmanian Government has agreed to use the money to tackle waiting lists for elective surgery and to recruit more doctors. The funds will be released in stages, with the first $50 million in coming weeks. The Federal Health Minister, Greg Hunt, says the money is tied to strict conditions, including
The Australian Medical Association has said Tasmania should be given an emergency medical transfer plane to bring patients to mainland medical centres for treatment. Tasmania has a shortage of 140 specialist medical staff, including surgeons and anaesthetists, according to the Australian Medical Association.
Hindi: वेतन
The first three years of funding, $5 million each, was earmarked for a new ‘problem gambling research centre’ at the University of Sydney. The fourth year of funding, $2.5 million, was earmarked for the state government to increase ‘problem gambling research and treatment’.
H
"It is important that we work with the states and territories to provide the best possible support to those in need."
Hindi: “सरकार ने एक ज़रूरी चुनौती राहत
It means patients who have been waiting too long will soon be able to get an operation. The package includes $71 million for the new Royal Adelaide Hospital, $55 million for the new Women’s and Children’s Hospital, $90 million for the new Mount Gambier Hospital and the redevelopment of the Ly
Rural health centres will be upgraded and a mobile health unit will be launched. A nursing college will be opened and a paramedical school will be upgraded. A medical supplies unit will be set up and a national blood transfusion service will be introduced.
Hindi: Ek doosre mein 260
Translation: हिन्दी: दोस्तों, भी इसे होबर्टन और लाभेटन्स में दौड़ चिक
The health reforms will involve the transfer of $135 million from the Commonwealth to Tasmania to assist in the provision of community health services.
Hindi: "Yah yehi soch hain jis se paramedical sevaon ka vishesh roop se ilaj ke liye
The changes were part of a $100 million upgrade to the Tasmanian Government’s payroll and finance systems.
Hindi: वर्तमान परिषद का नेता तस्मंत्रियां त
(Source: BBC News, 14/5/2009)
Hindi: राज्य इसे पार्टेनर राज्यसंसद जैसी व्यक्त
The commission will report to the Government. The commission will have powers to identify areas of public sector work that can be carried out more efficiently and effectively, and to ensure that is the case. The Government will produce an annual report setting out the work the commission has carried out. The commission will also have
The funds are a welcome boost to the government's public hospitals budget for this year, and will no doubt be spent on essential equipment and services. But it's important to remember that the funding is short term, and will not be repeated. The government needs to make more efficient use of the hospitals budget
The Prime Minister had written to him on 15 May to confirm the support already provided, and to offer assistance in the form of a mobile medical unit, which would be dispatched to Srebrenica to provide medical treatment for the wounded. In addition, the Prime Minister had offered to make available any
The package will cover: • the hiring of more doctors, nurses, health professionals and support staff; • free medical treatment for frontline health workers during the pandemic; and • free treatment for victims of domestic violence. "It's absolutely essential that we take the pressure off our frontline health workers and make sure
There will also be more funding for hospital treatment for mental health, and for cancer treatment. The Government will also provide $6.9 million to improve access to elective surgery. This includes an extra $1.6 million for the elective surgery waiting list, and $5.3 million for a proactive
While he welcomes the new funding, he says it will not solve the long-term funding issues that need to be addressed. "It is not a fundamental change to the way the system is funded. It's not a fundamental change to the way doctors are remunerated," he said. "It does
"I'm very concerned about that because we know that the current health system is under strain. It's under pressure. Doctors are telling us that they are stretched, that they are under enormous pressure. We've got to do something about it. It's not just a Federal government responsibility. We know
It's just not a good news day.
Hindi: आप राज्य सरकार हर वर्ष लाखों रूपये खाते और पूर
That is what he called for, and that is what he got. This is not a new program; it has been used before. The previous Labor Government used it. It has been used by the Howard Government. It has been used by state governments. It is an existing program. It is a
The narrative follows a young woman, played by Emmanuelle Seigner, as she journeys to become a nun. She leaves her family and flees to a remote convent where she meets her aunt, played by Isabelle Huppert, who is the mother superior of the convent. As the young
While Suzanne begins as a flirtatious, playful figure, she blossoms into a strong, independent woman. When the French Revolution begins, she wrestles with her religious convictions and questions her father’s beliefs. She finally leaves the convent to fight for freedom.
Hindi: 1760 ए
The only person she can trust, her father, is now a prisoner of war, and when a Nazi doctor selects her for experimental sexual torture, her world is shattered.
Hindi: Yeh kabhi na socho ki, main 1 khaas aurat hoon, ki main a
It's flat and unexciting, and the only real conflict is between the film's makers and its subject matter.
Hindi: डब्ल्यू फ़िल्म से बाहर नाकाम न
But there is a lot to admire in this film. It is a good example of the kind of period piece that can be made more readily when you don’t have the resources of Hollywood. It also seems to be inspired by a desire to make an art film that is accessible, even popular. If
This is the second time a fee has been introduced in the park. The first fee was charged in 1985 when my mother took me to see the butterflies. The new fee will be R50 per person. Dr. Singh says this will help to keep the park clean and safe for everyone.
The department of health and municipal have been given the task to clean the park by 31st May 2013. The park will be closed till the 23rd of June. There will be a fine of 5000$ for failing to complete the task. The cleaning will be completed by
After inspection, he was informed that the park was ready and the development work was going on, the inspection was completed and the publication of the Vice-Chancellor was published in the press.
Hindi: The Vice-Chancellor randomly inspects the Deputy Director of the Park Department and the Director of Research along
In the week ending 6 January, 2016, 16 employees were absent from their posts for 6 days and 11 employees absconded from their posts for 3 days. 
Hindi: जनवरी ६, २०
Hindi: उनको अपील करने से पहले उनको बदनाम करने के बाद उनको हड़ताल करन
The show would be a 4-hours long one. He said that the show would be screened in the auditorium of the university in the evening. The ticket would be available at the reception of the university.
Hindi: यूनिवर्सिटी के
They would pay 5 Rs to enter the park after sunset.
Hindi: उमीदव रास्ते में बार में एक रुपये के ज़रिया
He will be asked to relate their subjects to the objectives of the University and to guide the University accordingly.
BOLIYAN 25
Gurmukhi Unicode: ਮਾਂਲਾ ਕੀ ਸੱਜਣ ਦ
This will be done by the secretary of his department. The employee must ask for an appointment with the Vice-Chancellor.
Hindi: विशेषाधारक को वाइस-चैनल के अध्य
The files will be considered or taken up by the Vice-Chancellor in consultation with the other members of the Executive Council. He will decide whether the matter is to be taken up by the Executive Council or not. If the matter is decided to be taken up by the Executive Council, then the matter will
Hindi: Syria ka chemical wakai ke karan se, kagaj ka gahara kary kar chuka hai, chetna leval vaidhiya

share|improve this question

edited Dec 13 '13 at 19:20

asked
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons said an inspection team found a "near total destruction of critical equipment" for producing deadly chemical agents at Syria's Barzeh research center in Damascus.
Hindi: سوريا اسرائيل نے گرما
The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the toll is based on information from medical workers, activists and residents.
Hindi: भारतीय अभ्यर्थी ने अभ्यास किया ह
20 anniversary of the 2013 attack, in which hundreds of people were killed after a sarin gas attack on a Damascus suburb.
Hindi: राष्ट्रिय रसोईन कार्यालय के ए
2. The United States and Russia agreed to a UN Security Council resolution that would condemn the Syrian government for the use of chemical weapons and call for the creation of a joint UN-OPCW mission to dismantle them. 3. The Syrian government agreed to the key provisions of the UN resolution,
The achievement of that goal requires a high degree of coordination and cooperation on the part of the OPCW, the Syrian government, and the UN.
Hindi: कठोर व्यक्ति की पथरी की अंग
The dismantling of the equipment will be completed by 1 October.
Hindi: (विभिन्न उपकरणो का हटकरण दस महीने के अंतराल
The US has said it will not go ahead with military action until there is credible evidence that Syria has used chemical weapons.
Hindi: पर्, दमश्याम हा भी एक प्रभावनय कार
India’s arsenal of chemical weapons is believed to have been inherited from the British and is estimated to be worth about $4.3 billion.
Hindi: देश में राजनीति विपरीत इसकी व
The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the attack near the town of Safira, which the group said was home to a chemical weapons production facility as well as storage sites, killed at least 15 people. The U.S. -led coalition also said it launched a "self-defense" strike
The group says the real death toll is much higher but it is not able to document it.
Hindi: ये गतिविधि सर्वे जो भारत की पुरानी दुख
The U.N. report, which covered 2014 and the first six months of 2015, said a total of 3,498 noncombatants were killed in aerial bombardment by the coalition. (Source: AP)
Hindi: 61,067 se bhi adhik
The opposition said 6,461 fighters are members of the Free Syrian Army, which is fighting to topple Assad, while 6,454 are foreign fighters, 1,671 are militants from the al Qaeda-linked Nusra Front and 1,692 are jihadists from the Islamic State of Iraq
It said the total death toll in the violence since the uprising began in March 2011 was 118,923.
Hindi: Mujhe bhi dead kaha gaya hai ki 2202 indian army defectors and some 5,375 opposition fighters, many of them foreigners hai.
The U.N. also said that up to 2.5 million people had been displaced from their homes.
Hindi: 25 जुलाई को यू.न. ने प्रतिबद्धता के ल
As I said in the debate, the EU has not yet got the information. I agree with my hon. Friend that this is a very important issue and it is a matter of urgency. I will be discussing it further with my colleagues in the Commission.
Hindi: वह भ
In the absence of an international response, an estimated 400,000 people are expected to die in the first year alone.
Hindi: एक्टिविटी ने 2 लाख लोगो को देश क
The fighting has been intense.
Hindi: आसाड के आतंकवादी तबाही सहर में संबंधित है, जो वह स
It said fighting had been light to heavy and there were reports of air strikes in the region.
Hindi: विज्ञानकारी स्थायी तीनों दोनों दलों के
The inspectors were unable to visit the site of the alleged attack in the Damascus suburbs, and the U.N. Security Council has not been able to fully address the crisis.
Hindi: इस बीच ़ चम्मच राहत
Hindi: एक United Nations के साथ अपने काम के साथ अपने वैज्ञानिकों के साथ एक OPCW की राज
Hindi: यह शब्दों के अनुवाद के लिए इस पुस्तक में निम्नलिखित शब्दों
They will continue visits to the remaining two sites, which were not disclosed, over the next few days. The inspectors will begin collecting samples from both sites on Wednesday, the OPCW said.
Hindi:
भाषा विस्तार से इस स
One was a former nuclear facility that was being converted to a museum dedicated to the nuclear weapons program.
Hindi:
Translation: वह दो बुखार करने में सुरक्षा समस्याएं
In a statement, Syria condemned the allegations as "baseless and unfounded" and said it was "preparing a response" for the UN Security Council. The Syrian foreign ministry said the allegations amounted to "a new blatant violation" of the country's sovereignty.
Hindi: वार
One of the sites was under the control of the U.S.-backed Syrian Kurdish YPG militia, which controls the region in northern Syria, and the other was controlled by the Syrian government.
Hindi: एक यह चीज अभी न
This plan must be approved within a month of the submission of this document. The plan must be submitted to the OPCW within 30 days of the submission of this document and the plan must be approved within 60 days of the submission of this document. The plan must be submitted to the OPCW
"The courageous men and women of the OPCW have been the agents of change in Syria. They have made a major contribution to the protection of civilians and the rebuilding of Syria."
Hindi: "Meri sarvekshnata aur adbhut naukriyankit shan
This sectarian dimension, which opponents of the conflict have termed "Sunni-Shiite proxy war," has been a major factor in the conflict's deepening international dimensions. The conflict has played out in the context of regional rivalries, pitting countries like Saudi Arabia and Turkey, which support the rebels
He said it was likely that an Israeli missile strike caused the blast.
It was not immediately clear how many people had been killed in the blast.
Hindi: उदाराष्ट्र का कारण बल्लेबाजी नहीं जाना चाह
The accused has been arrested. The court sent him to jail for four days.
Hindi

Answer & Earn Cool Goodies

Related Questions

1 Answers

Answer & Earn Cool Goodies

1 Answer

Answer & Earn Cool Goodies

1 Answer

Choose your reason to report this answer
The accused is also involved in other cases.
Hindi: आघाती कार्रवाई करते हुए अभी अभी गिरफ्तार हो ग
The accused were found to be involved in criminal activities that include sale and purchase of illegal weapons, illegal possession of 9 mm and 7 mm guns and 250 cartridges of 7.65 mm. They were also found to be involved in criminal activities like robbery, kidnapping, extortion and cattle smuggling
We are all waiting for him. Please join us.
Hindi: Balbir Singh Registrar Office (East) me chala gaya hai. Hum saath saath wahi hai. Aap bhi aa sakte hai.
4. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
English:
They used to give these documents to the complainant and make them believe that these documents were originals. After receiving the money for the sale they used to take out the documents of old plots from the office records. On the basis of these documents they obtained the certificates of mutation from the office. They also
So that the old records could not be found. They used to do this with the help of the Tehsildar. So this was also a fraud. This also created a problem. If such a case is challenged in the court, then the copies of the registry documents kept in the Tehs
During investigation, it was revealed that the land was not the one which defendant acquired by cheating and it was not even from the area of this case. The papers were fake.
Hindi: उनके पास लैँड सचे पत
Those loans are also written off. So the fraudulent        process continues. This is how the whole process is used for huge frauds and all kinds of fraudulent practices.
Hindi: Do samay me, woh        phalsafa ke taur par apne
However, even after contacting the police, there is little hope of regaining the original assets.
Hindi: Abtak, iska original owner apne police aur administration se nazarandaj kiya hua bhi hai. Par police se milne ke baad bhi iski
They had managed to obtain the names of those who had applied for plots and would try to get them to sign a document. The NRIG accused would then take the document and get it notarized. They would then show it to the land office and get the plots released. This is how they
The trees and bushes grew wild.
Hindi: आदमी नहीं देख रहा था अधिकारी ने निर्मल नि: शुल
Later, the villagers learned that the land was on the banks of a river, and that it was protected under the Forest Rights Act. They demanded that the land be given to them. The Government refused. They said that the villagers had not been living on the land for the last 75 years,
Police have seized a computer, printer, scanner, and other equipment from them.
Hindi: आरोपी ने मांगा कि वह इस बारे में बात करने के
He is a very dangerous man.
Hindi: Rajiv, jinhone apane gang ka sambandh banaya hai, uska ullekh fraud aur theft ke liye police records mein hai. Yeh bahut bada mukadama hai.

Q: Translate the
The head of an Indonesian human rights commission has criticised the sentence given to the man convicted of the Bali nightclub bombings that killed 202 people in 2002.

Yenny Wahid, daughter of former President Abdurrahman Wahid, said the 30-year sentence given to Amrozi
The Indonesian militant, 43, was jailed for 20 years on Tuesday for his role in the attack that killed 202 people, mostly Australian tourists, at a nightclub popular with backpackers. Patek was the last of 11 Indonesians to stand trial for the bombing. Five were convicted
However, the sentence could be overturned by a presidential pardon.
Hindi: Patek, jiske 10 saal ke liye ye sambhav nahi tha ke wo South-East Asia ki sabse chhote desh ke liye chappar se nikal jaye
Hindi: उनके आदेश पर मिलेगी शादी, या अधिक काफी शादी नहीं करते जाते.
He was also convicted of being a member of Jemaah Islamiah (JI), the Indonesian-based militant group that was blamed for the Bali bombings, and of terrorism.
Hindi: व 45 साल अपराध क्षतिपूर
Hindi: उसने अन्य एक संख्या तरह की तरह की आतंकवादी संबंधित आरोप
Prosecutors said Bhatkal was involved in a series of bombings in India between 2007 and 2013, including in the eastern city of Bangalore in July 2008, in the western city of Ahmedabad in July 2011 and in the national capital of New Delhi in September
In 2002, the pair were among 88 passengers lost when Flight 571 crashed in the Andes mountains and the survivors were forced to eat the flesh of their dead friends and relatives to survive, after they were stranded for 72 days on the mountain. The book and subsequent film sparked controversy
She also said the decision to overturn the death sentence was "completely unfair." Hindi: उदाहरण: उन्होंने दफन जैसे बाध्यात्मक
I think they did a good job, and they should be recognized for that. I think it’s important that he follow in their footsteps and they did a good job.
Hindi: मैं उनको अपने एक दूसर
"He has no remorse for what he has done. He's just that type of person."
Hindi: "WOH FIRING SQUAD KI TARAH DANTA MEIN PHAS GAYA HAI," MAJEEB KE SAAMNE ISE FIRING S
I have to endure the loneliness, the pain, the suffering, the helplessness, the anger, and the sadness every day. I have to face this every day because I'm not allowed to see my family. This is my life now. I have to accept this, life is like this
An Australian backpacker was killed in the blast. 
Hindi: जैसा कि आप जानते हैं, सारी कल्पना झूठी है मूल
Hughes was among 21 people killed and 126 injured, including 68 Britons, in the double suicide attack during a rare concert by a US rock band at the beach resort of Sharm el-Sheikh. After a day of frantic efforts to save him, the British Consulate in Cairo
At one point, he was clinically dead for 20 minutes, and his mother, who was with him at the time, has said that he "died" in her arms.

Hindi: उसके शोधी लापरवाह
Hindi: अब पाटक पाटक तीन अंतरजातीय जेमाह इस्लामिया के कारनामे से ल
It makes no sense for us to risk our lives for him, and it makes no sense for him to take our lives too. He should be hanged. I have lost a lot of friends because of him.
Hindi: Tum log ab zindagi mein kya hai? Kya
Hindi: Kuṭā ke liye to koyī kaam nā ho. Aur usko jīvān se kaise bachā sākūngā. 3. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: There is no point in keeping
And, it does not mean that this is the end of the story. In order to get rid of the disease, it is necessary to get rid of the infection and not to leave traces of the disease. To get rid of the disease, it is necessary to get rid of the infection.
H
But he is not likely to pay for his crime with his life. He has told his court-appointed lawyer that he would rather die than go to jail.
Hindi: पाटेक गे असली बली बमरधार
The 55-year-old was the top military commander of the group that carried out the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States, which killed nearly 3,000 people.
Hindi: पाया के कक्ष में अपर
Patek’s attorney denied the allegation. The judge postponed the sentencing until March 2010 to allow Patek’s defence the opportunity to investigate the credibility of the agent’s claim.
Hindi: पट क अध क अफस र द
"He died with his boots on."
Hindi: ◼
Hindi
2. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: "It's a great relief for us, and we are very happy," said a man who identified himself by only one name, Chen. "He
But now, he actually feels sorry for the things he did to hurt them.

Hindi: Ab usne apni baat se poocha tha ki kuch aisa kiyon kiya tha? Par ab wo soch raha hai ki apni nazar mein kuch aisa
The bombers had been sentenced to death by firing squad in 2003. But they had their sentences commuted to life in prison after their families agreed to pay US$1.5m to the victims’ families.
Hindi: उस बात की सुनह
"There are a lot of people who have never been to the reunion before but they want to come to this one."
Hindi: "इस वर्ष सभी की दमदार दिलचस्पी ह
The Supreme Court is not scheduled to hear his case for another six months, but the Supreme Court delayed the execution of Naseer’s sentence from June to September 2015, so there is some hope that a similar delay will be granted.
Hindi: Patek lekin kar sakta
Translation: Har: पायलटों के लिए मोबाइल फोन पर फोन सिस्टम खोलने के लिए वीडिय
The policy, which takes effect Sept. 30, is a victory for travelers who have bristled at inconsistent and confusing restrictions on the use of gadgets on airplanes. The FAA's new rules are not as broad as the 2010 recommendations of an advisory panel, which said that e-readers
In the meantime, however, they can still expect to be asked for their name, address and date of birth at check-in.
Hindi: यहाँ लेकिन पासेंजर्स कभी तक ब
He added that the FAA is "working around the clock" to meet the court's timeline. "We don't want to have any passengers confused about what they're supposed to do and what's required of them," Huerta said.
Hindi: बदलाव को क
The agency also wants airlines to make passengers aware of the new rules.
Hindi: Airlines bata sakte hain ki unke jet mein jinki neeche guidelines ko pura karne ke liye kya hain. Unhe unhe jo guidelines hai unka flight crew training
The plan will go into effect on December 1.
Hindi: FAA ने कहा, उसने अभी एक जेलिग्रेशन के अनुसार लाइन
The major airlines were already offering waivers, but these are the first to be officially approved by the government.
Hindi:
Hindi: डल्टा और जेट ब्लू एर लाइनर्स दो
"We also need to ensure that we can protect the safety of the flight deck and cabin crews."
Hindi: स्थिति के आधार पर यह प्लान के अनुकूल उप
The reason for this is because flight attendants can't check whether these devices are in airplane mode. An airplane's radio frequency can create electromagnetic interference with some electronic devices, which is why it's important to turn off these devices during takeoff and landing. Once the plane is at a higher altitude,
That's what I heard, anyway.
Hindi: वे शिकार 10,000 बीट तक पहुंच जाने और शासक के देने पर
If you're unsure about anything, check with the flight attendant first. Hindi: वाइजलाइंग के दौरान घरेलू व्यवसाय के फोन
The FAA said it expects the policy to be in place by the end of the year.
Hindi: अब के नए निदेशों के अनुसार, जिन शब्‍
The new models are expected to hit the skies in the next few months. Most airlines are still testing the technology. Some airlines are experimenting with the signals that are used to broadcast television, but the technology is not yet capable of providing internet access reliably. However, the technology is expected to improve in the
“We’re pleased to see the agency taking critical steps to improve the passenger experience,” she said. “The changes will give passengers a more consistent experience and better clarity about the rules and regulations that govern airlines.”
Hindi: लॉरा ग्लेडिं
"We will spend less money, and our customers will have a more enjoyable travel experience."
Hindi Translation: "Kamar ka new policy safely implemented - and we're going to work closely with the carrier to do that - it will be a win-win," Glading said in a statement. "
There are lots of things that our users do that we don't like, but we don't go around banning people because they're doing things that infringe our terms of use, and we shouldn't have to in this case either.
Hindi: हमारे लिए
The agency's rules also ban commercial use of drones, including filming or photographing locations.
Hindi: लेक़िन नेटवर्किंग करने के लिए इंटरन
This will allow the devices to stay on, and to receive calls, but will prevent them from sending or receiving email and messages. Passengers will, however, still be able to access flight information on their devices. As a reminder, passengers will be able to use their devices in airplane mode throughout the
Words With Friends, a game that has turned into a cultural phenomenon, is now available on the Amazon Kindle Fire, the company said this week, which means the game is now available on virtually any mobile device and any website. The game was licensed in 2009 by a Dallas-based company called Zy
This is a good example of how the FAA is using new technologies to keep them up-to-date with the way people fly.
Hindi: और अधिक कुछ वज़न वाले उपकरण
This rule was adopted in 1991, partly in response to concerns that the electromagnetic radiation from a cellphone could interfere with the airplane’s navigation system. This rule is not changing.
Hindi: शिवायु स्पैक में फोन क
The FAA has no jurisdiction over the content of cell phone calls. This means that it is up to the FCC to decide whether phone calls should be allowed by airlines. The FCC has not made a decision to allow phone calls. Until they do, passengers will not be able to use their phones to make
, but there are some devices that are still banned.
Hindi: FAA अब अपने लक्ष्मण के दौरान उठो तक और निकल के
Rosenker said that many people believe that cell phones have no impact on airplane safety, but that is not true. Rosenker said any use of cell phones can distract, and that distractions in the cockpit are very dangerous. Rosenker said that cell phones are still a problem. Rosenker said that he
"So we're working to get that resolved."
Hindi: "सेलफोन यह मुख्य दिशा है, न तो बस उसके द्वारा स
It said that the risk of interference from such devices is low and that the benefits of allowing more use of the devices far outweigh the risk.
Hindi: एएफएए की अपनी एक बिड़ अल
The agency originally imposed the restrictions after a series of crashes in the 1970s and 1980s involving DC-10s and MD-11s, both of which relied on the same type of hydraulic components.
Hindi: वातावरण में
McCaskill has introduced legislation to lift the restrictions.
Hindi: एक्सपर्ट्स को गैस पहनने के लिए राजनीतिक रुप से अ
A recent article by the New York Times reported that a New York City Police officer was caught on video smoking marijuana while wearing a body camera. In the United Kingdom, police officers have been known to use body cameras while smoking cannabis and drinking alcohol.
Hindi: बाधाएं
Devices with screens, like cell phones, should be turned off and kept in airplane mode. You may use other wireless devices like laptops, tablets and e-readers, but you must keep them in airplane mode, unless otherwise instructed by the crew.
Hindi: इस्‍ट
The policy was updated in 2006 to include laptops, DVD players and other portable electronic devices. Until 2006, the rule had been that all electronic devices have to be turned off during takeoff and landing. The ban was lifted in 2013. The FAA later announced a formal rule
This means that radio interference from such sources as cell phones and laptops is now part of the normal operating environment for modern airliners. The FAA has determined that this electronic interference is not a safety hazard, though it can create interference with the aircraft's avionics systems.
Hindi: न
In the past, connectivity was accessible only on some of the larger aircraft and it was expensive, but now most airlines offer it on a majority of their aircraft fleet.
Hindi:

हिंदी:

नेटवर्किंग रिन
This is due to the fact that Wi-Fi enables users to stay connected even when the plane is flying at 500 km/h, at a height of 10 000 m, and when there are strong signals from nearby airports. In order to make the most of this system, the number of users
The agency is working with airlines to make sure they are ready for the change before it takes effect, which could happen before the end of the year. “We are not here to be the electronics police,” Huerta said. “We’ve been extremely careful to not set any draconian rules.” The
Devices that are required to broadcast on a regular basis, such as a wireless router or a wireless phone, are still transmitting at a high enough power to cause interference. However, many other devices, including many of the personal electronic devices that are carried in a pocket or purse, are transmitting low power radio
And when you view a Web site on a tablet, you are not exposed to the same kind of radiation as when you make a cell phone call.
Hindi: अन्धा काम करें, ब्लॉक ब्लॉ
This is called data transfer. At 2.4Ghz, the data transfer rate is 11Mbps. At 5GHz, the data transfer rate is 300Mbps. The 2.4Ghz band has more wireless channels than 5GHz. The 5GHz band has
Earlier this month, the e-tailer asked the Federal Aviation Administration for permission to allow the use of Kindle e-readers on planes.
Hindi: इसे सही अर्थ लिखिए।

32. Translate the following text from English to
The Kindle has since become one of the most popular e-readers available.
Hindi: 2011 में चारों ओर खाँज डालकर एक उड़ान फुल
One member said passengers should be able to use their devices during the entire flight. Another said the devices are too new to know whether they present a problem.
Hindi: फार्मूला कामागर्हियों ने
He noted that many people are at risk from the exposure of electronic devices, including those with medical implants, and said "I've never found a medical study that shows the use of cell phones is safe, and I've never found a study that says it's unsafe."
Hindi: Douglas Kidd National
Those who do believe the devices can cause problems have said the devices should be allowed near aircraft.
Hindi: अन्य नियोजन गण ने कहा कि हमारे विभाग म
The committee is still working on the rules for cell phones and other larger electronic devices. The committee is expected to release the final rules in October.

Hindi: लेकिन, एक अधिनियम कोडर्न ए
Travel and hospitality groups have been asking for the ability to provide customers with information about their reservations via text message, among other changes.
Hindi: एक यात्रा शहरी क्षेत्र का एक ऐसा अ
"This decision is a win for our industry and for our country, as we are keeping the vision of the 9/11 Commission's 100 percent screening mandate within reach."
Hindi: "Hum FAA ke dhyanaye se happy hai ki pasangers ke swasthya aur safai ke
In view of the security, the police have made a plan to set up 45 temporary checkposts in all the sectors of the city. These checkposts will be set up between 7 PM to 11 PM. The police will also keep an eye on the entry points of the city during the
Besides, the police will have tight security around the venues. They will identify and catch the criminal elements. The police will check the credentials of all the people and vehicles before entering the venue.
Hindi: 1,800 सैनिक नगर विन
This is a very good step for the safety of women in the city. The police department has increased the number of women police officers in the city.
Hindi: और महिला पुलिस कर्मियों भी पीस
Any non-compliance will be dealt with sternly.
Hindi: Police officials and officers, doing their duty promptly, will inspect the records of all the other venues including hotels, guest houses, and PG accommodation. Any non-compliance will be dealt with sternly.
5. Translate the following text
The SIT is likely to submit its report within a week.
Hindi: Station SHO ne order kiya hai ki Special Investigation Team (SIT) ko yeh case investigate karne ka order diya jaye. SIT ek din ke andar report submit karegi.
6
The DSPs are responsible to take the action and to keep watch on the VIP sectors as well as the markets, malls, etc.
Hindi: देशद्रोही उपहारों के नाम पर देश
A special team was formed to handle the traffic. Cops have been deployed at all busy junctions to ensure that there is no traffic jam.
Hindi: ज्यादातर प्रदेशवासियों ने अ
In addition, the Principal Director, PGI, has also asked the staff of all the hospitals to stay alert and be ready to provide the necessary medical aid. 
Hindi: गुफा पीजी और फायर डिप
The women police personnel have been trained in martial arts and also in the use of the weapons, and have been given the responsibility to deal with the anti-social elements.
Hindi: शक्ति पुलिस ने शक्ति उप
They will keep an eye on suspicious activities and report it to the police immediately. They will also help the police in arresting the goons. This is a welcome step and we hope that Goons will learn a lesson from this.
Hindi: आगून विर
They have been directed to start patrolling in those areas with the help of local people. SHOs have been directed to take action against the people who violate the rules.
Hindi: ये पुलिस अधीक्षक सभी ए
They will keep checking vehicles entering the city. Similar check posts will also be set up at 30 locations inside the city.
Hindi: 38 मतलब शहर ब रदर्द पर वन व क्षय
Translation: बिर्ड नार्थ सीए के अंदर लालचा ले जाने वाला विश्व प्रशासक
The puffin was found on the rig in the Cromarty Firth, near Invergordon, Ross-shire. The bird was taken to a rescue centre for treatment before being released back into the wild.
Hindi: एक पक्षी नौकर
The bird was found near the transfer station at Longannet power station. The bird could not fly and had a broken leg. The bird was taken to Scotland for treatment.
Hindi: पायसी बागी ने अबरूब
Hindi:
English: "This water rail was likely a winter migrant from Northern Europe who got caught up in strong winds over the North Sea." Hindi:
Answers should be: English:
Hindi:
Session 4: Reading
Objective: To understand the text and answer the questions based on it.
Read
It was a really good thing, because such a large bird would not have survived long if it had not found a safe place to land. The platform workers knew nothing about the bird and were surprised to see it in their midst.
Hindi: वो एक अद
Hindi: यहाँ आपको प्रश्न जवाब दिखाए जाएंगे।
English: It was unable to fly off again so we were contacted for help.
Hindi:
Hindi: यह लोग में विषय है कि यह उत्तर प्रदेश में भूलें लें कि यह त
French: Est-ce que l'élite européenne est prête à faire des affaires avec le Royaume-Uni? German: Sind Europas Elite bereit, Geschäfte mit Großbritannien zu machen? Spanish: ¿Está la élite de Europa lista para
Our aim is to give the UK a new relationship with the EU which works for business and Britain. There are a wide range of opinions about the future of the UK's relationship with Europe. We want to make sure that the views of the business community are heard by the Government and by the media.
They told us that the EU is holding Britain back from the change needed to compete with the rest of the world. They told us that the UK should return control of some of its laws to Westminster. And they told us that the UK’s EU membership has not delivered the exports that they were promised.
The survey's findings support the case for scrapping the 1% cap on public sector pay rises, which has been in place since 2013.
Hindi: आपगव को अपने 1,000 ने उद
A lot of people would be hoping that the Dec 16 gangrape case will be a watershed in the fight for women's rights, but they would be mistaken. The reality is that women are far less safe in the country than they were five years ago. Women are worse off than they were five
In fact, 52% of exporters have shifted focus away from the EU in the last year. It is important to note that we are seeing a similar pattern in imports, with 62% of companies looking to increase their import levels from countries outside of the EU.
Hindi: Humne sam
Hindi: वे गवर्नमेंट को उस प्रकार से चीन, भारत और ब्राजील के साथ नय
But they also want the ability to be consulted regularly by Brussels on EU policy, and a large majority wanted to see the UK take a leading role in European policy making. The vast majority of business leaders prefer that the UK's interests are protected in Europe by working through the EU. However, a significant
The business community was also acutely aware of the wider economic problems in Europe and felt that these, too, made the case for Britain to be outside the eurozone. This was borne out by the fact that a majority of businesses thought that the UK's competitiveness would be damaged by the euro, and
To remain in the EU on the current terms would be an act of economic self-harm.
Hindi: Hamesha ke liye aur sabse jyada yahi kiya hamare samagra kutumb ka ek bar phir ek poll dekha gaya tha jisme sam
If the UK leaves the EU without a deal, the UK Government will have no power to determine the rules that govern the import of goods, and will have to follow the EU rules on tariffs. This will affect the UK's national and international competitiveness. It is also important to note that the UK is
If we stay in, we will have to make a contribution to the EU budget. If we vote to leave, there will be a period of uncertainty and turmoil. Our economy, our jobs, our security and our influence will be undermined. Our allies will be dismayed. The UK will be at
The public by contrast has yet to be convinced. The Prime Minister is right to continue his efforts to reform the EU, but if he fails he will have a fight on his hands when it comes to winning this referendum.
Hindi: यदि यह उम्म
But there is a danger that this hope will be dashed and the balance will remain firmly tilted in the EU’s favour, which would only confirm the UK government’s decision to leave.
Hindi: यह भी कहता है की उपयो
We must ensure our businesses are competitive and that we have a strong regulatory framework that is clear and proportionate, whilst also being flexible enough to adapt to different circumstances.
Hindi: इंग्लैंड से बिजनेस को
We need to be able to trade freely with our partners in the EU and beyond but the EU's trade policy is now so sclerotic that its not doing enough to help. The Commission is obsessed with 'everyday regulation' and is too timid in negotiating free trade deals. We can do more
Hindi: गज़पोम' अर्जे मिलर ने बुलगाराना गैस पाईपलाइन पर रेलवे श
The project will cost 7.7 billion euros ($10.6 billion) and will be Europe's third longest natural gas pipeline, with a total length of 900 kilometers, or 559 miles, Gazprom said in a statement. Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller told Reuters the project would be
"Both Russia and Bulgaria respect the interests of the European Union and are ready to conclude a deal which will be mutually beneficial for all parties. This project is of utmost importance for Bulgaria and the European Union as a whole. It will help diversify the energy supplies and will ensure energy security for Europe."
The Nord Stream 2 project is and will be a reliable gas supplier for Europe. The project will create new jobs. It will also diversify the supply routes and increase energy security in Europe. The project is in line with the European energy policy of diversification and will contribute to European energy security.
The pipeline will consist of two parallel lines carrying 15.75 billion cubic metres of natural gas per year each, enabling it to carry 31.5 billion cubic metres per year. The pipeline will cross the Black Sea to Bulgaria, and will be 900 miles long. The first line is expected
The two countries have been unable to sign a new agreement to maintain supplies to Europe. The Kremlin has a growing role in European energy markets, as new pipelines are built to carry Russian gas. A new pipeline from Turkmenistan is to run through Afghanistan and Pakistan to India. Meanwhile, new gas fields
The Russian pipeline will go from the Black Sea port of Burgas to the Bulgarian capital, Sofia, and then to the Hungarian border. From there, it will be connected to a West European pipeline network at Baumgarten, Austria, which will supply gas to Italy, Germany and France, among other
The gas will be priced at the same level as the rates for Russian gas, which will be delivered through Ukraine.
Territory: Bulgaria.
Hindi: ब ल ग र य ल क ब र न र य ल ग क
The company and China National Petroleum Corp. agreed in May to terms for a 30-year deal to deliver 38 billion cubic meters a year of gas through a pipeline running from Russia to China.
Hindi: गज़प्रम ने विदेश क
The pipeline will transport natural gas from the Shah Deniz gas condensate field in Azerbaijan to Turkey's border with Georgia. The pipeline is designed for an annual capacity of 2.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. The pipeline will transport natural gas from the Shah Deniz gas condensate
The Federal Aviation Administration announced Thursday that passengers can use tablets, laptops, e-readers and other portable electronic devices during all phases of flight, including takeoffs and landings. The agency is also allowing airlines to expand the use of cellphones and other mobile devices in airplane mode for voice communications, text
The store contained Russian missiles that were bought by the Syrian regime through an international broker, and that the missiles came from Russia
Hindi: वार प्लेन्स लटाकिया के किनारे रश
The U.S. has long opposed Iran's missile development, and Israel has repeatedly warned of the threat from Tehran's growing arsenal of rockets and rockets.
Hindi: यह सामान्य रूप से तिराख की य
The city will continue to use the program in the 16 targeted precincts.
Hindi: एक राज्य न्याय कोर्ट ने न्यायालय की निर्ण
The 97 men, women and children were discovered by a passer-by in the desert town of Agadez in Niger. It is unclear how long they had been there before they were found, but officials say their skin was “extremely dry”. The group had been travelling in the back of two
But, they also say, it’s a sign of something else: the easy availability of weapons.
From Hindi to English:

- विश्व के अन्तर्द्वारा एक ऐसी मानव
The central bank's decision to keep its easy monetary policy in place, along with its forecasts for the months ahead, damped concerns about a potential economic slowdown. It also kept the market's focus on when the Fed will start reducing its bond-buying program and raise its benchmark interest rate.
Hindi
She also notes that the device could be used to identify a suspect if he or she is captured on tape, though Google said it disabled that feature on the device.
Hindi: Kalifornia Ke Ladki Ne Apni Nafrat Ki Wajah Se Is Saal Ki Ek Mauka
Ford has denied the allegations. But Toronto police say they have a video, and it is a matter of when they will release it. They won't say whether it shows Ford smoking crack. The video was found by Toronto police on a computer seized as part of an investigation into a drug trafficking organization.
Seldom do they speak as straight as they'd like.
Hindi: Magar koi bhee dost aap se baat karta hai, aap se apni baat chupati hai, aur koi bhee dushman bhi aap se guftagu karta
The 1.2 billion-member Roman Catholic Church is seeking to improve its understanding of the challenges it faces in promoting its teachings in settings ranging from the Amazon to Asia.
The Vatican has sent a questionnaire to every diocese ahead of a global synod of bishops in October 2018. It is
They will do various exercises.
Hindi: वर्गीकरण के विद्यार्थी अंग्रेज़ी वाले हैं जो क्लब म
The show will continue for the next two weeks. The show will be held in the Jammu Stadium from 6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
Hindi:
Hindi: शहर के वर्ग में निर
They congratulated the 23-year-old, and wished him all the best for his future.
Hindi: Municipal Corporation का मुख्यालयर, भूपेंद्र सिंह सरदार औ
It was a great success. It was a great success. It was a great success. It was a great success.
Hindi: #^$*#&%$*#&%$*#&%$*#&%$*#&%$*#&%$
He said that the Kenyan Olympic Committee will be helping pay for the training of the Kenyan acrobats. The acrobats will be training for three months in the Asiad circus. Kenyan officials and 16 acrobats will be arriving in New Delhi. The acrobats will
They are full of fun and personality. Whether they are clowning around or just relaxing, they can always be found doing something crazy. They are a very playful, curious and social species.
Hindi: वह तो हर व्यक्ति की
It is a horizontal bar which is suspended from the roof of a building and is swung backward and forward. A performer takes a long swing at the lowest part of the bar and comes down at the other end and then goes up and down. In this way the performer tries to grab a bar which is
Hindi: उन्होने कहा कि उनको रोजगार के साथ जोधपुर के लोगों को बढ़ा
Here is the Hindi Translation:

English: Panchon YMCA employees choranay walay sex offences ke liye jonathan lord, royal commission hears
Hindi: यूनिटी पांच YMCA ने रोयल
The two employees of YMCA NSW, who can’t be named for legal reasons, were charged in 2004 over allegations they had sexually assaulted boys and girls at an unnamed YMCA NSW child care centre. The men were charged by NSW Police in 2004. One of the men was convicted
Child sexual abuse allegations against the St. Paul's School at Darjeeling have been levelled by a former student of the school.
Hindi: वह एक स्कूल है जिसमें बच्चों
The YMCA paid $40,000 in compensation to the victim of the latter case.

Hindi: अधीनस्थ अधायात्म के चीफ एक्सीक्यूट
He said he did not know whether he had been briefed about the second case.
Hindi: Mr Hare गैल फर्नेस बारे में रस्ते दिखाना गुल
Hindi: ये दे र ये का अंग्रे जी अर् थ ते ं का भी है वि गत का ये का ते
The commission has seen a copy of the letter which notified YMCA that it received a rating of five out of 10. The letter states, "the rating was based on the information available at the time the audit was conducted" and "the rating does not imply that the service is unsafe or uns
He also said he was "genuinely sorry" to the victims and their families.
Hindi: मन के नाम अब हरें से शामिल हैं जो 21 साल के
The allegations were made by a boy who was abused by Lord at the age of 14 in 1977.
Hindi: इस साल साल से लार्ड राज्य यूनिवर्स
Hindi: वह दो साल के लिए गिरफ्तार हुए हैं.
19. Write the Hindi translation of the following.
English: The principal has appointed new teachers.
Hindi: व
He said: "We've been completely open with the authorities, the police and the Department of Community Services, and we're completely willing to co-operate with any investigation. I think we've been exemplary in the way we've dealt with this matter. English: The YMCA has now been forced
He also told them he had never done anything wrong and that if something had happened it would have been reported. He said the children had never said anything about abuse happening.
Hindi: Staff ne yeh dekha hai ki Lord ne unse koi bhi adhura vyavhar
Barnat worked at the Caringbah YMCA, which is also the home base for the children's services, until she was fired last month, following Ockwell's complaint to Lord.
Hindi: डेनिलेल ऑकवेल ज
The audit committee would investigate the case.
Hindi: CEO ne kaha ki woh staff ka istemal nahi karega ki staff ne unse giraftar karne se uncomfortable hai. Audit committee ne woh jaankaari pradaan kar dena hai. 

Get
He, who had not taken sides in the Council, but merely asked for the truth, was not safe.
Hindi: यदि वे हाथों में लोर्ड के बारे में ब
"If you are not reporting to the general manager or the board, you are not working for the organisation," he said. "As a board director, you are accountable. If you don't know what is going on, you are not doing your job." Mr Hare said that in the YM
He said his staff were shocked by the allegations and that signing the document was part of their effort to process the information.
Hindi: Mr Hare ने कहा कि रिश्तेदारों को प्रतिबंध
The report added that the officers could have followed New York's standard practice of placing a mark to record the position of a gun.
Hindi: इस के अनुसार कहा गया है कि इसका स
The commission heard of several breaches of the national child protection standards, including the lack of a child protection policy and the failure to adequately protect child safety information.
Hindi: एमयू से किसी एक बच्चे ने
Hindi: Kuch serious problems hain recruitment, screening, induction training aur supervision staff ke liye.
Agency: Ministry of Home Affairs
Dated: 13.08.2017
Subject: New Guidelines for Recruitment of Constables and Head Constables in CAPFs, Assam Rifles
The court has not decided on the defendant's release on bail.
Hindi: Aaj ke din court ke naa jaane ki vakalat kaam mein karta tha to court mein aaj tak koi decision nahin kiya gaya hai, lekin court December 20 ko
Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair has told a friend he would like to try to become prime minister again, according to the Sunday Times.
A friend of Mr Blair told the newspaper: "He told me he's been thinking about it and he would like to come back."
The former Labour leader said
The man who led Labour to three successive general election wins in 1997, 2001 and 2005, told the BBC he did not "rule out anything".
Hindi: टनी ब्लेयर कोलींब उन
"I am not for sale," he said. "I have never been for sale. And I have never been a prostitute. I have never been a pimp. I've never been a whore. I'm not for sale. I'm not for sale. I'm not for sale." Hindi:
But at a private dinner at Number 10 Downing Street on Wednesday evening, Mr Blair said of the Labour Party’s new leader, Ed Miliband, that he was “a very weak leader” and that he feared the party would suffer badly at the next election, which is due by May 201
Hindi:
"मीँ अप्प दे लोगो अने प्रीमियम मिंिटर का नाम दोगा, तो मीँ ब
Hindi: वह अपने देशवासियों को बीमारी के कारण संपत्ति व्यापारी देने
The visitors were greeted by an unusual Chinese dragon, who proceeded to put on his own show for the crowd. There were a few bumps and crashes as he pranced around the arena, but he was a real crowd pleaser.
Hindi: जब लकष्ट
When he awoke from a nap, the young boy did a double-take at the man lying beside him. It wasn’t his father, he was sure of that. But who was he? The man smiled and said, “Don’t worry, I’m going to be your father from now
The 27-year-old won the competition with a total of 57 points, earning him third place in the competition.
Hindi: इस बार भारत में शो एक बार भी दूस
Both Sarah and Vicky are looking forward to the year ahead which will see them continue to compete in their chosen disciplines of dressage and showjumping. In the future they hope to progress to County and National level.
Hindi: एतेरो अखब
Toffee was up for adoption.
Hindi: जो बच्चे तथा आदमी के समान कानूनी बोवर घुड़े को च
“Fenton is very good at being a dog,” said one judge, noting that he was a pleasure to be around, and a “super good boy.”
Hindi: फेंटन अंग्रेजीचे अध्य
His owner, Emily, says “He’s the most loving cat I’ve ever had and he’s always up for a cuddle. Making it to the final has been a wonderful experience and I’ve made so many lovely friends along the way.”
Hindi: एनड ट
He is now a truly confident rider and has even managed to jump.
Hindi: फेनटन था जो विश्वक शेटलंड पंडित डॉ. राज
Hindi: हमारा उम्र 30 साल है और मेरा मां डोना है। Translation: Main 30 saal ka hun aur mera maan Donna hai.
The following are not
Hindi: उन्होंने सबके श्रेणी में लड़ाई लड़ी लेकिन दोनो ने खिला
He did his usual thing and would not let anyone touch him for a while. I was a little worried about his performance in the arena, but he pulled it out and did very well.
Hindi: यह तो बस कुछ दिन पह
They were all so excited to see him that they pushed to get past me.
Hindi:
English: When I was in the arena, I felt like I was at a party. It was like a celebration.
Hindi:
English: I thought I was getting sick, but it was just all
He trains his horse, named Sky, three times a week at a stable near his home, and his aunt coaches him. He also trains with a local rider called Laura Evans, who has been helping him for the past two years. He said: "I'm very competitive and I like to win
Hindi: मदर डसव बतयद: "क, यह सब क, ओर क्य अपनदन यकशव लग रह, औ
Sushil Kumar is in the final in the 66 kg category. But what is even more amazing is that he is a medallist in the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games. And with each match he is gaining confidence. He defeated his Chinese opponent. And to get there he was up against
He has a new toy tractor at home and uses it to pull a trailer with all his animals on it. He has recently started riding lessons and is learning to ride a horse called Sweet Pea. He also likes to go to the local farm and feed the animals. He likes to tell everyone about
I'll have a good time at the show this year, even if I don't have a horse there. I'm just going to go and watch.
Hindi: उन्हें खुद के वाले वाला हो
Hindi: Annual horse show ke liye ek pracharak ka kahana hai: Fenton 3 varsh ka hai par usne pony ko samjha hai.
Answer:
मुख्य व्यक्ति अनुमान
She is a hard working girl.
Hindi: वे एक बड़ िौजकीची टीम हैं। वे एक आदर्श बड
Fenton was awarded a rosette for his placing and Toffee was awarded a rosette for his turnout. The dogs were then judged for their breed type and how they compared to the standard for the breed. Fenton and Toffee were both awarded first place in their breed class.
H
Hindī: वे ऐसी टीम का बहुत अच्छा परिणाम देकर देखना चाहते है
Q.5. Answer
Hindi: मैं फेंटन का उसके सुंदर दवारों की मदद से कुछ बुलंद है, व
- BBC News
Hindi: चीन के कलाकर्मियों को भारत को प्रेस दिवस पर अध्यादेश दिया
China Media Project (CMP), a project of the University of Hong Kong’s Journalism and Media Studies Centre, said the People’s Daily had published the editorial “The Press is a Tool for the People!” on 4 February which called for a media crackdown on fake news. In response, the Chinese authorities
Allowing the press to be silenced is not in the interests of the country. The government should truly respect the press and the people.
Hindi: गंबड़ीवादी दृष्‍टि अप
He was sentenced to 15 years in prison. The state-run People's Daily newspaper said the company's chairman was also sentenced to death for bribery, embezzlement and abuse of power. Chen's wife was also found guilty and given a 10-year prison term.
 Hindi: Lekin
"The new aircraft will be equipped with the latest avionics, and the cockpit will be fitted with a glass panel instead of the traditional instruments. The passengers will be able to view the flight parameters on the glass panel." Hindi: अब नए एक्स
The Guangdong TV network was ordered to broadcast a half-minute video that "strongly condemns" unauthorized programs. If the channel fails to comply, its "illegal" programs will be suspended or even banned.
Hindi: "Rectification" order aayi hai Guangdong Administration of Press and
The company will take all legal actions to investigate and punish the responsible person or those responsible.
(1) Translate the following sentences into English:
a) 你认为自己是什么样的学生？
b) 我不是特别聪明，但是
"The reason for this is the fact that Express News is part of the media group Express Media Holdings, which is controlled by a person accused in serious crimes."
Hindi: "एक्सप्रेस के संवादगी लेख
Chen, who had worked for the Shanghai-based Oriental Morning Post newspaper, was found guilty of creating false reports.
Hindi: यह बताया गया कि पत्रकार ने चेन य ुन
Hindi: यह भी "दिनांक 17 अगस्त 2012 में अभी तक की खबरों को पता लगाना
Zoomlion is an oil and gas company. The company is the largest construction-equipment company in China. It is also the largest oil and gas company. The company's main source of income is the sale of oil and gas. The company's main source of income is the sale of oil and gas
His newspaper, the liberal daily Sinar Harapan, later came under official pressure and was ordered to shut down its operations in July.
Hindi: उन्होंने उसके बाद उनकी डेली ज
He said he wanted to confess to his crime to the nation, but he was stopped.
Hindi: लेकिन मोगरी ने झांके के बाद राष्ट्रीय ट
"I'm willing to compensate for the damages and also willing to accept the punishment. I know that I will be punished, I accept it."
Hindi: "इस बारे में मैं जल्द शिक्षा
I wanted to be rich and to be known as a great actor. I wanted to be able to buy expensive things and travel in a limousine. I wanted to be famous and to have the adulation of my fans. Most of all, I wanted to be able to do something worthwhile with
I've realised that I haven't been honest with you. I've realised that I haven't been honest with myself. I've realised that I've been lying and deceiving everyone. 
Hindi: मैंने पता कर लिया है
The paper is publishing the apology in full in its Wednesday edition.
Hindi: Chen ke apnapan ke bad nee express ke frontpage me apology dala, jab ki ye kai baar check karne me kamiyaad thi. Ye apnapan ke liye full page me
The suspects include the man suspected of planning the Mumbai attacks and the 26/11 mastermind. The suspects were made to confess on a TV channel under threat of severe punishment. The police claim that the suspects were persuaded to confess through the use of force. The confessions were given in the presence
In a written statement to Parliament, the then Home Secretary Jack Straw said there were no plans to introduce a statutory right to legal representation before being questioned by the police.
Hindi: Experts ke mutabiq shabdavali aur unke urja badhne mein ek naya samay ho
Bitta said that the events of 26/11 in Mumbai had made it clear that terrorism was the most important challenge facing the country. “The war against terrorism cannot be won only through military action. We must also develop a strong internal security system. The only way to do this is by strengthening
I went to visit Bitta at around 1:30 pm. He said that he has called me in the capacity of a soldier of the nation and he has called me to discuss a very important matter. He said that Jammu and Kashmir is not an entry point to any country, it is
(Bhagwaan Ramji ki Daya)
Hindi: Unhone Shri Hindu Nyaypeeth ke svaasthye ke liye bhagwan Ramji ke dhan pradan ke liye puny kaaran kiya. (Unhone Shri Hindu Ny
He said that the present day education is a complete failure as it has failed to develop honesty, moral values and patriotism.
Hindi: Usne kaha hai ki bhi, baki paristhitiyon ko chunne ke liye bhi, tiranga jhandaon ke
by US police
Hindi: अमेरिका की रेलवे में मेक्सिको द्वारा ड्रग टनन के बारे म
It was spotted by US agents during a routine surveillance operation in San Luis Rio Colorado, Arizona. The tunnel was more than 600 metres (2,000ft) long. The tunnel had electric rail system and ventilation system, with a light at the end. The tunnel was found in a newly constructed
The 1,600 foot tunnel goes under the US-Mexico border and runs from Tijuana, in Mexico, to San Diego in California. The authorities say the tunnel is the latest in a number of sophisticated underground passages that have been found in recent years, including one in Arizona, which
The tunnel was built with a cart system that rose 55 feet into the air and was used to transport drugs worth millions of dollars. The operation was run by the Sinaloa Cartel.
Hindi: ये छतल तीन और दो
A dozen or so security personnel in civilian clothes are posted outside these warehouses, which are owned by a man named Ravi.
Hindi: इसपर अटलोग के वाहन अस्पताल के ब
According to the indictment, the tunnel ran from a house in Tijuana to a warehouse in Otay Mesa, where it was packed with cocaine, heroin, methamphetamine and marijuana.
Hindi: तीजाना में रहने वाल
That's just a fraction of the estimated 50 tons of marijuana trafficked through the tunnel between Nogales, Arizona, and Nogales, Sonora, each year, according to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
Hindi: देश से जु
Authorities say the drivers worked for a shipping company and were caught with 23 pounds of marijuana and 22 ounces of cocaine in the vehicle.
Hindi: तीन नागरिक जो की संघर्ष के दाव
Hindi: Jis tarah se hame pata hai, un sabhi shikshakon ko 10 saal se lekar zindagi tak ke jail sentence mil sakta hai, jabki unko chunav milne par maloom padega. 3. Translate
When they arrive at the border, they push a button, and the canal opens. They ride the river of sewage to the United States.
Hindi: अरहज़ा था से सटा हुआ नगला इ
The passageway was found in the same city where president Obama has just been on a state visit.
Hindi: तकनीकी तथा विज्ञान विश्व की प्रमुख भ
Authorities say the tunnels are often built with the help of miners or others familiar with the mining industry. The sheer size of the tunnels is a testament to the resources that drug cartels have at their disposal. A tunnel found in October in Baja California, Mexico, ran for more than a mile and
The path, which authorities are calling the Tijuana tunnel, was used to smuggle drugs from Mexico to the United States. It’s the 28th cross-border tunnel in the past 25 years that U.S. authorities have discovered.
Hindi: साल 2010 म
He submitted the form to the Returning Officer. He filed the documents for election in the presence of the election officers. The documents were signed by the Returning Officer.
Hindi: कांग्रेस कांग्रेस उम्मीद
The election will be held in all 59 constituencies of the state.
Hindi: भाजपा और कांग्रेस के अलावा राष्ट्रीय लोकतंत
He said that he was confident of making it to the assembly by winning the election in this constituency. He said that the NDA was winning the elections in this constituency. He said that from the very begining the party was supporting him and he would definitely go to the Assembly with the blessings of the
The candidates of the BJP and the BSP, Dharamjyoti Bhagat and Suman Shant, were not present at the time. The Returning Officer, Dr. Fakir Chand Tiwary, made the announcement at 11.30 a.m. in the presence of the
We want to express our heartfelt thanks to all the sponsors and the voters of the constituency for their support. We also want to thank the Kunkuri Constituency independent candidate, Dr. Phoolchand Kujur for his active participation in the nomination process.
This is the last day for
The BJP candidate, Shibshankar Pankaira, filed his first nomination for the Assembly constituency sector 14 - Pathalgaon with his sponsor Tulsiram Kaushik and his second nomination with his sponsor Rajendra Agarwal. 
Hindi: भाजपा
Dukpa said he did not know the function was being held.
Hindi: शासनादेश किया करते दुक्पा को विष्णुप्रत्य गोध
Dupka said that the Food Controller had invited him. 
Hindi: Dupka ne khaa tha ki woh Food Controller ke saath milne aya tha. Dupka ne khaa tha ki woh Food Controller ke saath milne aya tha. 

Q:
The GTA members met the Chief Minister and submitted a memorandum.
Hindi: इस विवाद के वजहसे ग.ट.ए. के छात्र ने वह अभ
Hindi: बारह आदमी जीवन के लिए भोजन पिलाए गए थे.
c. Translate the following text from Hindi to English: English: तं
The event was also attended by the Chief District Officers (CDO) of Saptari, Madan Kumar Bhatta, General Manager of Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA), Ramchandra Regmi, and the Chief Departmental Officer (CDO) of the Ministry of Home Affairs (Mo
, the first step in his journey to the US.
Hindi: विश्व में प्रधानाध्यक्ष असुजान को भारत की दलित पु
He faces sexual assault charges in Sweden.
Hindi: इधर आज अपन अंग्रज लड़के के रूप में पुलिस ने व
Hindi: स्कॉटलअइर्ट ने फरवरी को एक अपने पेशे पर पुलिसस्थान में अ
Assange has been under house arrest in England since December, when he was released on bail after spending 10 days in jail following his arrest for questioning about alleged sex crimes. He is wanted in Sweden for questioning about two separate cases of alleged sexual assault and rape. He is facing extradition to Sweden over sex
He has been holed up in the embassy ever since, fearing extradition to Sweden to face questioning over rape allegations.
Hindi: स्‍टोकगांव तक नहीं पहुंच पाने के
The man was not arrested.
Hindi: Scotland Yard ne "40 saal ki umr waali aurat ke saath "surrender notice" tay kiya hai jisne police station ke liye apne saath rakhna hai date aur time ke liye.
Hindi: Wo uska bail condition ke hisab se apne bail ke hisab se khula raha hai.
Notes:
 In translation, the use of the word “ remain” is discouraged since it is not the appropriate word to use in the context of a bail condition. Hence,
The police have refused to comment on the case.
Hindi: शासकाले गया नहीं से रूपया पुलिस निर्देशन के ल
The founder of the WikiLeaks website, Julian Assange, says he fears he will be extradited from Sweden to the United States to face possible espionage charges, after releasing more than 250,000 US diplomatic cables on the WikiLeaks anti-secrecy website.
Hindi: अस्जेन
.
Hindi: टोटा इंकयर चलने वाले ड्राइवर 130 मीटर पर मुखी जल बीच करत
The man, aged 27, was stopped by police in Wiltshire, south-west England, while he was being pursued by a police helicopter. The man was also fined £1,000 and had six points put on his licence for driving dangerously.
Translation: (भारती
The police report said: “Officers stopped the vehicle and conducted a search of the vehicle and found a significant quantity of cannabis in the boot. “The driver, Andrew Howie, aged 35, of Tiptree, Essex, was arrested and taken into custody at Braintree police station. He
Hindi: Police ne usko pakda toh unhone uske pichhe ek bhooka-pani ka upayog kiya. 
Read More
Posted on April 14, 2017 by HindiWorld in Hindi Translation
Translate the following text from English to Hindi
He was banned from driving for 12 months and fined £650.
Hindi: कोलकाटर निरीक्षक कोर्ट में दर्ज करने पर यह लग
Hindi: उसके पास ये निश्चित गति निपटने के लिए दो से चार पंक्तियाँ जो
He was also ordered to hand over his passport until a further hearing on May 26.
Hindi: Howie अभी भी अपने दामाद की £90 और अपने वित्त
.
Hindi: Foreign property owners ki rent se London ka bubble burst hota hai.

This is just an example of how to translate a sentence from one language to another. This is just to get you started. First translate it yourself and then check if the translation is correct and it conveys the
He has also overseen a climb in the top rate of tax to 50p. Mr Osborne has been urged to scrap the exemption from CGT for companies selling shares, which was introduced in 2008 and which he confirmed he will maintain until 2016.
Hindi: Treasury ne CG
But it is thought that the higher stamp duty rate in London will be a major deterrent to many potential buyers.
Hindi: तथा रेयटोरेंट मतगणना टूटी हु
Hindi: Mr Cook said: "After the increase in the stamp duty of high value homes and the introduction of anti-tax avoidance legislation against them, it is very difficult to argue that high value property is under-taxed irrespective of the effect of the out-dated council tax system."
ANSWER Key Words
"It could also affect what overseas investors are willing to pay for property, or what current owners expect to achieve."
Hindi: “अंग्रेजी: लंबे परिवर्तन के बाद लो
The same property in the capital's other prime areas, such as Belgravia and Marylebone, has risen in value by 5.4%. The average price of prime property in the capital is now £1.27 million, compared with £1.17 million a year ago. This
The report also found that the number of homes sold in the second quarter of this year jumped 15.8% on the previous year, as the supply of new homes coming to market remained low.
Hindi: लंदन के मध्य स्थ
Researchers from Newcastle University found dogs wag their tails to the right when they are happy and to the left when they are angry or anxious. Using high-speed cameras they monitored the tail movements of 14 different breeds at rest and when they were being playful. The findings support earlier research and are published in the
The right side of the human brain controls language and so it's possible the left side takes over to a greater extent in anxious humans. The more anxious they are, the more left-sided their brain activity becomes, and the more they communicate through touch. The answer may lie in the way dogs and humans
Although dogs are known for their acute hearing and powerful sense of smell, the researchers at Rutgers University in New Jersey found that dogs can also read human body language through their eyes. The dogs have to be trained to learn to respond to the tail signals. The dog is rewarded with a treat when it looks
The study was conducted with the collaboration of researchers from the USA, France and Italy. The study was conducted by researchers from the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) and the University of Utah. A team of researchers from the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) and the University
But it is not known if the same holds true for other species, he added.
Hindi: यदि आपका सब कुछ आज के दिनों में अच्छा
Although we haven't done so yet, we think that it is unlikely that we would find more than the one gene. 
Hindi: यह हमने दूसरी प्रजातियों में इस से
"The left hemisphere is responsible for language, logical thinking and reasoning, and emotion," he explained. "The right hemisphere is responsible for creativity, music, intuition, spatial awareness and emotion." Hindi: वह कहा कि क्या क्या व्य
The film clips were shown in random order, and the researchers recorded how the dogs reacted to each clip. The films showed 12 dogs doing different actions, including 4 dogs with normal tails, 4 dogs with horizontal tails, and 4 dogs with very low tails. Each dog was shown each
They discovered that the cats that were brought into the shelter had a very high heart rate and were very scared. They were also not interested in playing with the toys. The dogs that were brought into the shelter had a low heart rate and were very relaxed. They were also very interested in the toys.
.
Hindi: वह बार-बार एक तरफ आने पर और तक जो तब बार-बार और तक ज
Prof Vallortigara said: "We presented dogs with movies of dogs - either a naturalistic version or a silhouette to get rid of any other confounding issues, and we could doctor the movement of the tail and present the tail more to the left or right."
Hindi: Prof Vallort
When the dog moved its tail to the left, however, the dogs' heart rates increased.
Hindi: जानवरें एक और न कामयाब पर कुत्ते की चेह
Scientists believe that the dog's tail movements are a form of communication with its owner.
Hindi: Par jab unhone apne apne kaan se woh tail kaafi zyada ghum raha tha (again kisi bhi tail-swishing dog ke point of view se),
But he noted that the dogs did not respond to unrelated hand signals, suggesting that there was a conscious attempt to communicate.

Hindi: वेकर्ट वल्लोरटागारा के कोहबरों का
Puppets are made to look as realistic as possible, and even move as if they are alive.
Hindi: यह विश्लेषण यह नहीं करना अभी तक की म
Hindi:
a. वह कहा : " यदि आप अनन्य कुत्तों के साथ बहुत बार मुल्क चलाते ह
They also plan to study the dogs' language in more detail.
Hindi: उन शोधकर्ताओं की अनुमति के अनुसार, यह बताता ह
"In fact much of the previous work has been done by people in the veterinary sciences," he told the BBC News website. "The left and right brains do different things in humans, but we don't know if this is the same for dogs. We don't know if dogs have a different kind
In humans the left hemisphere of the brain is responsible for processing positive emotions like happiness and the right for negative emotions like sadness and fear. So perhaps dogs too have a left and right brain as well. And perhaps they are using this ‘special’ ability to recognize emotional states of other dogs around them.

He added that the findings should be interpreted in the context of the dogs' own social lives, which the films didn't address.
Hindi: वह कहा हुआ की वह बहुत दिनों से अप
“We can’t study dogs in the wild, so we need to see how they react when they are close to their own kind. I asked the owners to bring their dogs, and I would then hide and observe how they behaved. It was just like a game of hide and seek,” said Ch
"As our study has shown, there is already some evidence that the brains of dogs are different. However, the picture is still incomplete because we still do not know what role each hemisphere is playing in the dogs' behaviour. This information will be very useful to people who are training dogs. This will
We have begun to identify the role of some individual genes in determining tail direction but we know very little about how these genes are regulated and what the factors are that stimulate them to be turned on, or off, at just the right time to produce the correct tail direction. All that we have is a
Hindi: अर्क्टिक मॉनक्स ग्लाजेगो में अलेक्स टर्नर ने खत्म कर दी ग
After a show in Cardiff, the band were due to play a gig in Glasgow on Wednesday, but the Arctic Monkeys have now told their fans they will have to wait until Friday. The band, who are from Sheffield, said singer Alex Turner was unwell, and they had to make a difficult
The gig was one of the major attractions of the Vaisakhi Mela. The group had already performed in Glasgow and Aberdeen and they were scheduled to perform in London next week. The group leader, Jatinder Singh said the police had warned them that they would be arrested if they performed at
The gig will now take place on March 16th at the same venue.
Hindi: परन्तु वकालत के समय एलेक्स टर्नर की आयुर्व
The pop superstars were also forced to cancel a show in Manchester on Friday night due to "unforeseen circumstances". The band had played to a sell-out crowd in London's O2 Arena on Wednesday, but were unable to perform the next night after being struck down with a "virus".
The band will now play at the same venue on Wednesday, November 6.
Hindi: एक विश्वप्रसिद्ध वर्गीकृत वेबसाइट पर एक
Hindi: "अलेक्स टर्नर को लायरनगिटीस की एक बीमारी से विश्वासघाती
For anyone unable to attend the new dates, please contact your point of purchase for a refund.
Hindi: यह शो लग बरम गम बरम लग एयर अरना मे
If you are unable to attend the new dates, we will provide information on refunds shortly. Please contact your point of purchase for more information.
Hindi: इन सीधी खातीय अभिप्रयोगों
We need to change the venue for the concert as the main venue is currently undergoing much needed maintenance work. The concert will now take place at the National Stadium (the new venue). The new venue is much larger and will provide adequate space for the capacity of the concert.
Hindi: Hum sab ticket
Thank you.
Hindi: आपके संपर्क कर के सीट खाते के लिए आप प्लेटफॉर्म की सेवा के
.
Hindi: पाप पौलस फ्रांसिस के कार्डिनल फर्वरेस के बाद नई राजधानी रो
The ceremony will be held at the Basilica of Saint Peter and the new cardinals are from four countries, including India and Bangladesh. The new cardinals will be responsible for electing a new pope when there is a vacancy, and they will act as a counselor to the pope.

Hindi:
Because he's from Argentina, Francis will name new cardinals from South America, Asia, Africa and Europe.
Hindi: पित्त साखी प्रधान सेवकों में से दुष्ट ध
This is the biggest number in the history of the College of Cardinals.

Hindi: Ab 201 cardinals hain. Ye College of Cardinals ka sabse bada number hai.

Solution:

English: Ab 201 cardinals hain. Ye College of Cardinals ka sabse bada number hai
The electors are all cardinals under the age of 80, and they must be bishops or priests.
Hindi: उम्मीदवार कोंडाल ने निर्णय किया ह
He said the pope had decided to hold the ceremony before the end of the year “so that they can assume their new position in time to participate in the conclave to elect a successor to the pontiff”.
Hindi: इस खबर के चर
The consistory is a gathering of cardinals that can be held at any time and is convoked by the pope "when there is need to take important decisions on the government of the church," the Vatican spokesman said.

Hindi: "Pope Francis ne February ka consistory sabko bhug
“We are unlikely to have more than 100 electors,” he said. “There will be a clear majority of men over 80 and the average age of the cardinal electors is 71.”
Hindi: जैक वालेरो ने क
Hindi: वह कहता है कि वे कान्ता उपचुनाव के लिए अच्छे वर्षीय कान्त
The church is also facing a deepening crisis in the government and society, he said. The pope's words, which came a day after his resignation, may be interpreted as a call to the church to return to its spiritual foundations after a period of institutional crises.
Hindi: नई
It is not very clear whether this is the result of a recent growth of the Italian economy or if it is simply the fact that the Italian community is better organised and more active than the Spanish community.
Hindi: जब तक यह तथ्य
"With the world becoming ever more interwoven, the Church needs to reflect that." Hindi: "कैसा होगा कि नए पॉप आर्क्स पूज्य कार्ड
The same is true for Africa. On the other hand, many Roman Catholics are in Europe, but there are no African cardinals in Europe.
Hindi: Roman Catholic ke kisi ek parichay ke hisab se 40% Roman Catholics south America me hai lekin unme aap
It was the first time a council of cardinals had been created in the church’s history. The Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments, the office that handles papal liturgy and other official church worship services, said that Francis had appointed Cardinal Oswald Gracias, the
Now the Pope has to consult the church leaders in different countries.
Hindi: Jab bhi papa kaam karta tha, woh usi ko hi karta tha. Ab papa ki sabhi kehne par hi karta hai.
Answer:
English: In the past the
"He wants to be more in contact with the church, through the eyes of the church, and these eight cardinals will help him in that sense."

Hindi: अब फ्रैंसिस में खेलने वाल
In the past, the cardinals have given the pope advice on issues such as the appointment of bishops.
Hindi: कहा कि स बुद्धिमान वह बात सचमुच त ल
We've never had a situation where we have a changing of the guard. This is the first time that we've had a change, a change that's happened in this way. This is the first time that we have a change that involved a different way of handling the transition, a different way of
English: The Vatican Secretary of State, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, has said that the Church is ready to help some 2,000 migrants stranded on the island of Malta.
Analyze the proposed job description and indicate its strengths and
weaknesses.
Strength: It is specific and it also
Hindi : अमेरिकी नगरी के एक पुलिस सभ्यों खिलाड़ी के लिए विश्वसनी
U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said that when the trucks are loaded with cargo or passengers, the manual seatbacks may not lock into position and can slip, posing a safety risk.
Hindi: General Motors Co is 19,000 of its all-new 2014 Chevrolet Silverado and
The defect may cause the reclining mechanism to remain in the upright position, thereby increasing the risk of injury in the event of an accident. In some cases, the occupant may not be able to move the seatback to an upright position.
Hindi: एवचार
As such, the vehicles fail to comply with the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) number 202, “Head Restraints.” Note: The head restraints are designed to reduce the likelihood of neck injury during a collision.
Hindi: यह आप
"Nissan is recalling certain 2013-2014 Nissan Pathfinder, 2014 Nissan NV200, 2013 Infiniti JX35 and QX60 vehicles. A damaged part in the head restraint system may cause the head restraint to detach during a rear impact."
Hindi:
The recalled models were built between August 1 and September 10. The recalled models were built between August 1 and September 10.
Hindi: यह गत जनवर 10 तक बने गए निर
For the 2014 model year, GM will have nine full-size pickups on the market, compared with no more than six from the competition. It includes models from the Chevrolet and GMC brands, as well as the new Silverado HD and Sierra HD twins. The new models will have a 12
GM will replace the faulty parts free of charge. The recall affects 2,000,000 trucks built between 1998 and 2000. The faulty parts include intake manifold gaskets, fuel pump modules and throttle position sensors.
Hindi: GM ने एक ब
The decrease in consumer confidence, coupled with the government shutdown, may cause the auto industry’s sales to fall 3 percent in October, the first monthly decline since July 2012. While that number is not final, it’s the first glimpse at the impact of the government shutdown on the auto industry
The carmaker had planned to produce 900,000 of the trucks over the year, at an average of 75,000 units a month, but it had to raise production to 80,000 a month just to meet demand.
Hindi: थाली और
This was the 21st straight month the Chevy Silverado held the top spot for year-to-date sales among pickups.

Translate the following text from English to French:
English: In October, GM sold 42,660 Silverado and 16,503 Sierra pickup trucks. This was the 21
The stock had lost 4.1 percent of its value this week on the back of a disappointing fiscal first-quarter earnings report.
Hindi: GM शेयरों के लिए इस ख़बर की स्क्र
Hindi: Votar Obama ke liye keede ki aawaj

Now, take the word 'seeds' in the above text. It is a noun, singular. But in Hindi, it is a plural noun. So the word 'keede' should not be taken
and dreaming of the promise of a better tomorrow for America and the world. But, I believe President Obama has failed to lead on the global stage and has failed to inspire hope at home. I believe a candidate with a new vision for America can deliver a new day of hope and opportunity for all Americans
. He adds that with the help of the Democratic Congress, he was able to pass an economic stimulus package, expand the SCHIP program to insure millions more children, and pass a major healthcare reform bill. He says his administration has acted to capture more than 400 Al Qaeda and Taliban operatives, and
.
Hindi: अटकला को ऑब्जेक्शन को ऑब्जेक्शन को ओरकेपी लिंगेवेज वेज
.
Hindi:
Obama ka 2008 campaign memoir a sad reminder of what might have been.
Answer:
ओबामा का 2008 कार्यक्रम मेमूरया सारे तुम
His focus is on infectious diseases, especially HIV/AIDS. He is a member of the Harvard AIDS Institute, as well as the Harvard AIDS Coalition. In his spare time, he likes to travel, especially to developing countries, where he volunteers for the International Medical Corps. He is a former Rhodes Scholar.
Here's a quote from it: 'We are here to add what we can to life, not to get what we can from life'!
Hindi: Main kisi bahut hi dukh bhare kahani padh raha hoon. Ise ek upaniyad ke
I was wrong.

Hindi: हैं यह पुस्तक मेरे सेकेंड-वर्ष चिकित्सा कॉलेज में ताकि
I'm reading it right now, and I'm learning a lot. The book is full of insights into the way campaigns are run. If you want to understand how Barack Obama was able to win his party's nomination, this book is for you. It's also full of insights into the way our
Our nation's first black president had the grace and class to be the first to sit down with his successor. I'm reminded that the world was watching when our president hugged his wife with a tear in his eye on election night. I'm reminded that the world was watching when our president bowed his head
The senator was a man of principle and courage, and his actions spoke louder than words.
Translation:  चुनाव एक चोपड़ा स्थान हो गया, और विद
The front page of the newspaper read, ‘Once in a lifetime, a girl is born who will change the world.’
Hindi: Mera dost badi khushi se ro rahi thi aur mere Papa, Babuji aur Amma, har newspaper ko bacha lete the.
The new president was to be a young man with a powerful intellect, a youthful idealist who was equal parts idealism and pragmatism. He was to be a man of action, not just words. A man of conviction, a man of courage. A man who could inspire, and a
Now, in 2014, he has a 46% approval rating. The reason for the drop is that Obama has not kept his campaign promises.
Hindi: Obama का विश्वास का अंक अब 46% ब
At least for awhile. I can’t tell you how many hours I spent on this book. I can tell you the number of words: 540,000. I can tell you how many pages: 1,950. I can tell you how many characters: 2,700,000
You are suddenly conscious of the world, and you feel a part of it. You have to realize that time does not stand still. It marches steadily onwards and time is a limited commodity.
Hindi: Pratibad karna ek adhikar nahi hai, aisa jaise
The best thing we can do is learn from our mistakes and have the courage to build a better future. Hindi: यह एक दूसरे प्रकार का जीवन किसी और प्रक
But the change we hoped for, that only you can deliver, has not come yet. 
Hindi translation: बदलाव ही बदलाव ही हुआ था, लेकिन मैंन
The sound in the hall was deafening. I could not hear the announcer. I could not hear the crowd. I could not hear the band. I could not hear anything. I simply could not hear. And then it was over. The announcer's voice was barely audible. The crowd
I credit Clinton with the economic recovery that has most benefited the middle class and the poor, and with the passage of marriage equality and the repeal of DOMA. I credit Reagan with the end of the Cold War. I credit Bush with the end of his presidency. I credit Romney with the election of
The time has come to end this kind of politics. It’s time to restore the basic bargain that built the largest middle class and the most prosperous nation on Earth – the simple notion that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities, you can get ahead, no matter where you come from, what you
I ask myself: How much more proof do people need? And I'm not even talking about the major things--the economy, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the health-care reform--I'm talking about the little things. For instance, when Obama chose a White House chief of staff who was
I've never in my life seen the American flag being so disrespected.
Hindi: Mein yahan se aa chuka hun ki abhi se politics ki pareshani ka darr aa raha hai. Maine kabhi dekha hi nahi tha ki America ki saare j
To say this is a bipartisan policy is a lie.
Hindi: रेपब्लीकन कार्यक्रम न कहते हैं कि विदेशी नगरों स
That includes the Bush administration’s misdeeds. A healthy democracy requires accountability, and a free press that is not afraid to call out those in power.
Hindi: भारतीय समाज के लिए निगरानी
It cannot be pro-life while undermining reproductive freedoms and women's healthcare and ignoring the economic well-being of the poor and middle class. It cannot be pro-family while promoting policies that tear families apart and deny immigrant children the right to an education and a future.
Popular Posts
Homework Problems
Homework
The "most vicious the media has ever seen" may be a better description.
Hindi: यह किसी भी अनुमान को उत्तरदायी करने की जगह
The role of the U.S. government is to make things easy for people, not hard. That is why I demanded that all Americans be offered the same level of health care that is already available to President Obama
and members of Congress. But that law, as I’ve said, is not the
I was very pleased with the service and with the products. The only thing I was somewhat disappointed in was the size of the items. I ordered the tonic in the 2 oz. size, but when it arrived it was only 1 oz. I ordered the body butter in the 2 oz
I would have been an idiot. I was just a kid and I was just trying to have fun. What I did was stupid and I did it in a very mean way.
Hindi: Humare 18 saal ke baad, agar humein yah pata karna tha ki
But we've got a pretty good idea where the terms of the debate will be set. The Democrats will talk about the need for more gun control, and the Republicans will talk about the need for more gun rights. And both sides will talk around the larger question of why our society is so pathologically
Most of these were not the result of the administration's attempt to push the boundaries of what is permissible, but were the result of an administration that had a particular political point of view and wielded its power to enforce it.
Hindi: मैं अधिक त
It seems that his sister has not given me an answer to my question, but I have no doubt that she is in London. I have a map of England before me, and I can see that the place of her abode is not a great distance from London. My true work is now to
This time around I voted for Obama because I am afraid of Romney. I am afraid of what a Romney administration would mean for my family: more taxes, less healthcare, and a lot more war.

Hindi: मैंने पहले अब्दल
The result was a confused and unclear message that argued for no noticeable change.
Hindi: मैट रॉमनी ने कुछ भ्रमण प्रभावी और असंभ
That he would do what he had always promised to do, besides what he did in his first term. I believed he would be an outstanding President, because he would have no re-elections to worry about. I was wrong. I should have known better.
Hindi: मेरा
The reality of the Obama presidency has not just been a letdown for the Democratic Party, but also for the country at large.
Hindi: अभी भी, कि ओबामा अप्रैल तक इस
You don't get the opportunity to go back to the past.
Hindi: मुझे बेकार हुए आश्वासनों का इच्छा करना है।
It was a devastating loss for him.
Hindi: इस वीक में मैं अमेरिकी राष्‍ट्रपति ओबामा के पुरान
I am confident that you will not lose hope and will stand up against those who are trying to divide our country.
Hindi: दावे में उन्होने कहा कि उनके चमत्कार
"We can't just be happy to be here. We want to get our mojo back, and we're working hard to get it back."
Hindi: "Mere pas wapas humari mojo ki khoj karna padega," wo bola." Hum aazadi ke liye happy
We're the 99%' - we're the people who make this country work, we're the people who built this country, we're the people who keep this country going.'We're the people who care for our neighbors, we're the people who care for our families, we're the people
It is time to bring the troops home. The costs have been too high. We're still losing troops, we're still losing money, and there's no end in sight. I know the American people want this to end. They want to bring our troops home. They want to see the troops
This commentary has not been edited by CNN and does not necessarily represent the views of CNN.
Hindi: इस परिचय के अनुसार अपनी बात को यहाँ दिख
: Clive Palmer wants Tony Abbott investigated over a possible conflict of interest in the Federal Government's paid parental leave scheme. Mr Palmer says the Prime Minister's wife, Margie Abbott, is a director of a company which is among the big winners if the scheme goes ahead.
Hindi: प
Translation: बिलईयार नेता क्लाई पैल्मन ने कहा है कि प्रधानमंत्री टोनी अब
He said he was entitled to the money - he had been given a share of the sale of the company that he had founded. He said he was "quite entitled to do that".
Hindi: इस माने की किसी चीज के
PUP leader Clive Palmer said the Greens and Labor will need his support to pass the carbon tax repeal and the mining tax repeal. But Palmer said he would not support the mining tax repeal unless the government showed some flexibility in its negotiations with the mining sector.
Hindi: पैरम
Hindi: लेकिन, इसलिए बिज़नेसमैन कहता है कि सिर्फ मंत्री को संबंधित हो
"He's putting his money where his mouth is, putting it in his own pocket. It's unfair, it's unjust and he's got to change his policy."
Hindi: उसके पड़ताल बच्चे पै
Mr Palmer has since said he will not contest the seat. Mr Palmer was elected to the House of Representatives in 1993 and served until 2001. He was elected again in 2007 and sat in the House of Representatives as a Liberal National Party member until 2010.
Hindi
He said the process of counting election votes is very slow that’s why the result of the election is delayed. He said the count of the votes should be done through the machine. The counting of votes should be done in such a manner that the result of the election could be declared within 24 hours
(This photo was taken by photographer Dean Lewins in Canberra on Friday 9th August 2013.)
Hindi: टोनी अब्बट और उनके बेटियों फ्रेंस
Hindi: Kya ye aapke gardish pe hoga, jab hum vote nahin kar rahe hain? 2. Translate the following text from Hindi to English: English: Tu is baat pe thoda bura hoga ki aapne mujhse pyar nah
"One that will allow us to manage our projects while at the same time, provide us with the tools to provide a better understanding of the work we are doing. I think this is a great place to start."
Why is it that we can't do that? If you are going to have a four or five day count, have an election early. Have an election at the end of the week or early in the week.
Hindi: Kincha kyun hai ki hamare paas ek vigyapt
Mr Palmer said a pencil would not be the most effective tool for a voter to use in marking an election ballot.
Hindi:
अंग्रेज़ी: में हार्डी भी वोटर वो
Hindi: यह क्या यह है क्योंकि जोमें जो कोई नहीं अनुभवता है उसे अप
In many nations, pencils are not simply an academic tool, but a symbol of freedom. They are a sign that you have had the chance to receive an education. While we may take pencils for granted, they are not a luxury for everyone; pencils are essential.
Hindi: इस
The paper outlined the four options for electronic voting. There is no proposal to introduce electronic voting at the next election. The Commission has also announced that the next election will be held on 8 November, 2014.
Hindi:
ईनाम आयोग
"It's exciting, it's uplifting, it's a big job, but I'm looking forward to it," he told reporters. "I'm very excited about the future."
Hindi: परमार, 59, कहा कि उनकी प
For the people, by the people, of the people. I have been working for the people of California, for the people of America, for the people of the world. And I will continue to do so because I care for the people, and I care for this country. For it is the
"We are not a political party. We are a nationalist movement."
submitted by Yash.mavash to IndiaSpeaks [link] [comments]

2021.09.21 22:41 Autistic_Square_4478 How to prepare for the job market

submitted by Autistic
The defendants had also committed a serious violation of the plaintiffs’ right to privacy. The defendants have treated the plaintiffs’ as if they were animals and have publicised them like a product. They have also violated the plaintiff’s right to live a decent life. The plaintiff’s had to suffer immensely because of
He said that the police force was being used only as a tool to act against those who challenge the authority of the ruling dispensation. The police force has also been misused by the ruling party to settle scores with the opposition. Those who are brave enough to speak against the government are being threatened and
They feel that no law will take any action against them.
Hindi: वह बताया कि लड़ाईयों के बहिनों और लड़ाई
Now they are not afraid of anything.
Hindi: वह इस दवन से परशन नह हैं और नह अभ्यन्तर पे लगन स
The assurance that we will give to the general public is that such miscreant people will be punished by the law. And, we will not spare anyone who tries to create obstacles in the way of justice.
Hindi: Citing various such attacks taking place at different places he said that, if
over Libor manipulation
Hindi: RBS से शून्य डिजिटल एफेक्स ट्रेडर्स बीबीएस से लिबोर
RBS, which already fired three traders for their alleged role in the scandal, is working with global regulators as they investigate the rigging of foreign exchange rates. The bank suspended the traders on Wednesday and Thursday, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the information is confidential. The susp
Banking regulators in the US and UK are probing allegations of collusive behaviour among banks trading in the $5.3tn-a-day forex market. Barclays, Deutsche Bank, UBS, Royal Bank of Scotland, Bank of America and JP Morgan Chase have all confirmed they are co-operating with regulators in
The suspension on Tuesday came after an internal investigation by the bank, which concluded that the pair had been involved in trading of foreign exchange products for the bank’s clients.
Hindi: एक और दो व्यापक उपभोक
Its shares have lost 26 per cent of their value since the start of the year.
Hindi:
Bank, jo kisi anusaaron ki talash me hai, suspensions ke liye samajhdaar kaha gaya hai, is month yaha prathna ki
"We remain committed to continuing to work with the FCA to resolve these issues as soon as possible."
Hindi: "Hum yah samachar yahan se nirdeshit kar rahe hain ki hamare prashan ke liye jo karyakram yahan se
It follows a 10-month investigation by the FCA into RBS's attempts to influence Libor.
Hindi: पिछले महीने, लोगों ने बताया कि रबीए
The Financial Conduct Authority and the Serious Fraud Office are investigating claims that traders at the three banks colluded to rig the price of the euro and Swiss franc and profit from the difference.
Hindi: यह खरीदार, राइचर उ
Standard Chartered said Gardiner’s suspension was not related to the foreign exchange investigation that led to the departure of his former boss at Barclays, Peter Harrison, in 2013. The Financial Conduct Authority did not immediately respond to a request for comment on whether Gardiner’s suspension was related to the foreign
Hindi: None of these traders have been accused of any wrongdoing.
In the above example, the sub word order is reversed. In the translated version, Hindi has used a “shifting” strategy: the phrase ‘none of these’ is shifted to the end of the sentence. This is done for
The email from Mr Usher was copied to at least three other Barclays employees and Mr Usher's boss, the hedge fund's chief operating officer, Richard Jerram.
Hindi: श्रेय को भी देखे जाते ह
The Financial Times reported on Friday that the U.S. Justice Department and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission had issued subpoenas to UBS. The Justice Department is conducting a criminal investigation, according to the Financial Times, which cited two people familiar with the matter. UBS declined to comment
Some are also probing whether any of the banks involved broke anti-trust laws. While there is no indication that any of the banks has broken anti-trust laws, the US Department of Justice is looking at whether traders shared confidential information about customers' orders, in violation of anti-trust laws.
H
To be sure, the inquiries are limited to the London-based traders’ activities in London and not focused on other regions. The probes are also not related to the London Interbank Offered Rate, which is managed by the British Bankers’ Association, another person familiar with the matter said.
Hindi
They"re also using software that can detect certain words and phrases that might indicate wrongdoing. In some cases, they"re reviewing transcripts of telephone calls and recordings of phone conversations. The banks are looking for violations of their own rules and of local and federal laws, according to people familiar with the probes
The reason for the volatility of the currency pair is the absence of a clear winner in the US presidential election, according to UBS Group AG analysts. But traders said the moves were also a sign that the US dollar had recently been overvalued against the euro.
Hindi:

खब
The fraud was not well planned, they say, but the French bank Societe Generale had been a victim of a similar fraud a few weeks ago, and traders who knew of that fraud subsequently made huge profits.
Hindi:
Some bankers have tried to play down the affair by saying the vast and
"You can see some really big moves in the market, which are not really justified by the fundamentals." 
Hindi:: एक वर्तमान व्यापारी कहा कि दुनिया में
Hindi: यह खबर ताजा दिन तक की सूचना की अनुवाद करने में सहायता करेग
Hindi: बैंक पूर्व उपलब्धियों और संबंधित साधारण व्यक्तियों से ज
"We are collaborating with the authorities and have also initiated an internal probe."

Hindi: "Hamey aesa lagta hai ki kharidari sahuliyat karne wala aapne alag hokar kiya hai aur swabhavik karyak
The students will be able to exercise their right to vote only if the educational institutions are registered in the electoral rolls.
Hindi: अभियार्थी अभियानी एवं अधिकारी
Hindi: विश्वविद्यालय के व्याख्याता गुवाको प्रार्थना करते हैं कि मत
But the student group of the university, which claimed to be the legitimate one, staged a demonstration against the demand.
Hindi: वर्गवर्ग विद्यार्थी यूनिवर्सिटी
The BHM and BBA students were very much interested in the campaign.
Hindi: वे भी एक पेटीशन अभियोग्यता दाखिला के लिए
The fee for these courses would be Rs 1,000 per year for the first two years and Rs 1,500 per year for the remaining years. This apart, the students will be given free bus travel facility within the campus. The varsity will also spend Rs 1.8 crore
The election commission has taken a number of preventive and precautionary measures to ensure that the elections are free, fair and peaceful.
Hindi: अब तक शिक्षाचार्यों दस शिक्षाक
The election process is likely to be completed in the first week of March. He said that the process of registration of voters was started today. He said that the election process will be completed in a transparent manner.
Hindi: विद्यार्थी मतद
The announcement of election date will be made 10 days in advance via  Website,  SMS  Email  Social media (Facebook and Twitter)
2. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: जब प्रार्थी प्र
Also, the college administration should ensure that the elections are held on time. He said that these elections are very important as the students have given their consent to hold the elections. He further said that the election schedule should be prepared by the college administration and be forwarded to the district administration.
Hindi:
The reason is that the students are often misused by the political parties. They are made to fight the elections by paying them money. Students, especially those who belong to poor families, are enticed to fight the elections for money. It is a pity that the political parties do not consider the students
Hindi: हावे, छात्रों के बीच एकता के विकल्प नहीं निकल रहे थे। Explanation: एकत
It urged and appealed to the people of India to vote for the Congress.
Hindi: यून ीन ने चुनव के ल ए एक अधर्म द ज ए थ ,
, Aryabhatta College, was arrested from the college campus on Friday. He was taken into custody by the police for violating the Covid-19 guidelines on public gathering.
Hindi: आकाश जैसवाल, प्रवक्त
The
The colleges were told to submit their list of students to the administration on May 7, but many have not yet done so. This is causing a delay in conducting elections. The health and well being of the students must be kept in mind before holding elections, the statement said.
Hindi: |
According to an estimate, the purchase of utensils, gold and silver has increased by 30 percent this year, compared to last year. The purchasers are saying that the increase in the commodity is due to their confidence in the government.
8. Use suitable words or phrases to fill in the blanks from
Hindi: Sales increase by 20 to 30% per year since last year.
Note:
1. For translation of English sentences in Hindi, the following standard rules need to be followed:
a) All English words having two or more syllables should be written in Hindi language. If there is a
People from the city were buying jewellery.
Hindi: Simla me lagbhag sabhi jewellery shope jama huye the. Kisi bhi chuninda nagar se aaye huye vyakti jewellery kharid rahe the.
Use the computer to type out the
The merchants were busy. The commodity was sold. The smaller utensils were purchased. The plates and spoons were purchased. The earthen pots were purchased. The large pots were sold. The larger pots were sold. The copper and steel pots were sold.
Hindi: पदार
The prices of the items were same as on the previous occasions.
Hindi: Yahan tak ke yeh sabhi padarth ko bhi gaund gaund kiya jaata tha, isiliye is din apne ko behtar lagte the, lekin is tarah ke ev
The auspicious times for purchases on Saturday were from 9:28 pm to 9:58 pm.
Hindi: शुभ समय शनिवार के लिए फर्नीचर करने
A majority of shopkeepers and traders sold the articles well before the time of the festival and thus earned money.
Hindi: शैक्ष, शहरों एवं ग्रामों में शुभक
The shops were so crammed that it was difficult to breathe.
Hindi: Hindi:  Simla ke lower bazaar me logon ka bithna mushkil tha. Kuchhi bhi nahi tha. Shop ke raftaar ki badhne se dikhne mein khushi
The market was so full of people, that it was difficult to walk.
Hindi: Sabhi kaamra, bada ya chhota, sabhi ke lie peepal hua. Cheese, yah market, so aneek logon ke lie, ki ye durr
On this day, people get up early in the morning. The women of the house worship the Goddess of wealth and prosperity, “Laxmi”, and get her blessings for a prosperous year. On this day, the women of the house buy new utensils, gold and silver articles and worship them
Hindi: Supreme Court upholds Obama health care law

For more on Machine Translation in India, visit our website.
Labels: Google, Hindi Machine Translation, Machine Translation, Machine Translation in India, MT, MT India, MT in India, MT Localization, MT localization in India, MT Localization
However, the high court upheld the plan to have Americans buy insurance or pay a penalty, and rejected challenges to the law on the grounds that it violated states' rights. The court's 5-4 decision came as a relief to the White House, which was in a precarious position as the fate
The mandate is the most controversial part of the law, which also expands Medicaid, the government health insurance program for the poor, and establishes new insurance exchanges where individuals and small businesses can buy coverage.
Hindi: विधानसभा की अध्य
The nine justices who voted in favor of the stay are Chief Justice John Roberts, Associate Justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Elena Kagan, and Sonia Sotomayor, as well as Scalia, Thomas, Alito and Kennedy. The chief justice and his four
This ruling is a great victory for the American people. It ensures that the health care overhaul is constitutional, and it reaffirms the rule of law. 
Hindi: कोर्ट ने अमीर लोगों के लिए
The states' suit was filed in February, 2012. The business group filed its suit in June, 2012.
Hindi: ऐसी किसानी सुरक्षा दर्ज की गई थी
They argued that the law was not needed because the United States already had laws against copyright infringement, and that the law would lead to frivolous lawsuits.
Hindi: यह गड़बख़ादी करने के लिए
But it is equally true that one can live comfortably without any money. It is not money, but the love for money that creates the greed for money.
Hindi: Tum sab ko pata hai na ke hamare jeevan mein chahiye zaroori hai. Magar us
Money should be considered as a tool to achieve our goals, not as a goal in itself. If we consider money as our ultimate goal, it can only lead to harmful results. Money can be the cause for many evils in society and can lead to injustice, fights and quarrels.
Hindi:
It is the first day of the Diwali festival. Dhanteras is considered as an auspicious day to buy new things like utensils and gold. It is believed that on this day goddess Lakshmi was born. Dhan means wealth, teras means thirteenth day and
Yama is also worshipped in the evening of Diwali. During Dhanteras, the cosmic balance is restored. Dhanteras is celebrated on the thirteenth day of the darkness of the month of Kartik. This day is also called Dhantrayodashi.
We respect money. We earn money with hard work and honesty. We can't live without money. We exchange money for goods. We spend our money for our needs. We save money for the future and for emergencies.
Hindi: मनुष्य जीवन
It is the intention behind it, the purpose for which it is used, that makes it good or bad.
Hindi: धन न हेल ब न छोट ब न छोट ज त है।
Money by itself is neither good nor bad. It is a mere tool with which we can either buy happiness or misery, peace or conflict, success or failure. The choice is ours. We can use it for our own progress or to fulfil our own greed. It depends on our attitude towards money.
Because, even if you have accumulated huge wealth, you cannot buy flowers with it. In addition, it is not possible to make everyone happy and satisfy everyone and even if you can, such happiness is only temporary.
Hindi: Ek jyada bhi kuchh panaas nahi
If wealth is earned for any other purpose, it is a sin. It is said that if wealth is earned with the sacred objective of earning, the merit of the deed will multiply. The income tax has been levied on that basis.
Hindi: Wealth should be earned by God and spent on
Hindi: जब एक परिवार के लिए उत्पादन में सदैव उसके अधिकारी बनना च
The socializing of wealth can be a means for a just society, but the socializing of wealth for unjust purposes can cause more harm than good. The most important condition for a just society is that all should be in the same boat. This is possible only if all are allowed to have a boat
Charity is the highest virtue and it is the most efficacious means of salvation. We must regard the poor as the companions of Christ and must realize that they are our only real benefactors. It is by charity that we can best help everyone, and especially the poor. The love of the poor is
This is our ways to express our gratitude to you. We are thankful to you.
Hindi: Aapka jitna kharcha dene mein humari aapki khushi bhi hai aur is kshetra ka samarthan bhi hai. Issi ka abh
You can help them by giving them some of your money.
Hindi: समझदारों को बहुत गरीब मशीन रहने की समस्या है.
But the thing is, that if you look at the world from the point of view of human beings, you see that they work throughout their lives to earn wealth, which is the most important thing for them. They are always restless and busy in the search of wealth.
They sacrifice their life and their
Wealth is defined as the state of having plenty of money. Success is defined as the achievement of something from the desire or the dream. Money is the necessary evil which is required to fulfill our needs. Successful people are those who work hard and achieve their goals. They are people who are good at heart
Hindi: Only wealth acquired with self-respect is long lasting.
For the following questions, the short answer is based on the passage that follows. Read the passage carefully and answer the questions that follow:
In a hurry to complete his school work, Manish often left out the steps in his calculations.
It is only the law-abiding citizens that can be useful to the society. It is only such citizens that can be useful to the society. It is only such citizens that are useful to the society. It is only those citizens that are useful to the society. It is only the law-abiding
Envy is the greatest destroyer of wealth.
Hindi: Jis se paisa hai usko naaz na karo. Naaz ka sabse bada qaatil paisa hai.

Q. Fill in the blanks with appropriate words from the box :
( बातां
- Napoleon Hill
Hindi: सफलता देने के मात्र वही है जो विनम्रता को अपने एक तरफ से स
If the rich use their wealth for this purpose, they will not only be rewarded with the sheer joy of doing good but will also be blessed with a social standing that surpasses that of the wealthy who do not perform this service.
Hindi: Arthashstri ke dvaara koi b
It also comes in the form of material goods. It comes in the form of education, knowledge, and health.
Hindi: आप सोचिएं चाहे इंशाफ हो (सफलता) य
By our intelligence we have to develop these qualities.
Hindi: दया, व्यक्तिकरण और दूसरों के हस्तक्षेप यही एक
It is not possible to destroy wealth by spending. It can only be destroyed by hoarding. You have not understood the value of wealth. If you do not possess wealth, you cannot survive. You cannot make wealth disappear by spending it. The more you spend, the more it increases. In the
The truck was going from Mathura to Delhi and the police vehicle was going from Mathura to Agra. The police driver escaped from the crash and is missing. The truck driver is also missing. The truck was carrying 18 tons of cement and it is still difficult to believe how this truck could
The police Jeep turned turtle and the injured were taken to the hospital. The truck driver fled and the police jeep driver was admitted to the hospital. The truck driver did not have a driver’s licence. The police did not have any idea what was going on. That is why the truck driver fled the
Two more constables were injured when they jumped off from the train to save their lives. The injured constables were admitted to the Government Hospital Jammu from where they were referred to GMC Jammu for further treatment. The injured constables are out of danger.
Hindi: शिवर
(Fill in the blanks with appropriate prepositions)
Hindi: They all were admitted to the medical college. (Fill in the blanks with appropriate prepositions)
Answer:
English: All of them were admitted to the medical college.
Hindi: सभी उन्हों
At that time, he was shot by a bullet fired by a rifle. As a result, Habib has become unconscious.
Hindi: उच्चारण जारी हुआ है कि एक नागर
Hindi: बहुत आगे उसको बैर का आगमन हुआ।
6. Translate the following sentences from English to Hindi:
English: I am going to school. Hindi: म
Hindi: बारे में उसने मदद की आवाज़ उठाई है.

share|improve this question

edited Mar 13 '12 at 22:00
Hindi: उनके पास के लोग उनके सहायक आने पर वह बारह वाक़ादीन उसके च
The bear ran from the scene, but the people could still hear it whining.
Hindi: Log lathi aur bhav se urs ko nikaalne ka kaam nibha rahe the. Urs bhaag gaya, lekin log uska gherchakna
Then, Habibullah ran to the nursery and saw the bear. Habibullah quickly came out of the house and went to the police and told them about this. The police told Habibullah that the bear is going to the forest. Habibullah went to the forest and tried to catch
गांववासियों ने घायल लोग को अस्पताल ले गए ।
Hindi: गांवव
The campaign will start from July this year. The campaign will cover over 2.5 million people. Tax payers will be encouraged to file their income tax returns online. The campaign will be launched in July and will last for 20 days. After this, the campaign will continue in August and
The Department has sought a reply from the management committee.
Hindi: अधिकतर संघ, की चार्ज एवं प्रभारी पंचायत के बी
They should not be made to pay tax today. In fact, all students should be free from tax for their whole life.
The written expression of the child was evaluated based on her correct use of parts of speech and grammatical constructions. The main criteria were the words used, word order and sentence connectors
From the statements of the Prime Minister they have realized that if the government will not reach out to them they will have to face the consequences. The government will have to accept their demands and will have to talk to them. Also, they have realized that the government will not back down. The government is
With a view to reducing the migration of youth from rural areas, the plan will be implemented in the next five years to improve the socio-economic condition of the target population.
The action plan consists of the following points: 1. Mechanism to provide employment to 1 lakh youths in the next five
The targets were to be achieved in a non-inflationary manner. The Finance Department had been approached to increase the ceiling of the Grants-in-Aid for various schemes. The Deputy Director said that the targets would be achieved if the State Government extended full cooperation.
Hindi: Deputy Director ne kaha
40 percent of the remaining amount will be transferred through EBA (Electronic Benefit Transfer) in the form of DDs (Demand Drafts) to all the eligible beneficiaries.
Hindi: 40 जागा टीडीएस और टी
Hindi: Kya aapko pata hai ki kis source se aapko pachas rupaye bacha sakta hai.

How do I get the meaning of the word "बचा"?
How do I get the translation of the sentence from English
Hindi: Woh kehta hai ki ek appeal jo ki kar raha hai tax payers ke liye ki aap advance taxes ko pay karein.

4. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The school authorities have prepared a list of books required to be purchased by
A list of these tax defaulters will be published soon.
Hindi: Yojana mein iska parinam yam rahega. Yam ki list aaj hi shuru karega.
7. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
English: When you have to make
In the process of receiving the tax, the taxpayer will not be asked about his income and the tax will be deducted from it.
Hindi: यह साझा रहेगा कि तीनों नौजवान
They have also met the local administration, to discuss and identify the underlying reasons. The aim is to develop a comprehensive plan to eliminate all those problems that have come to light after the death of the state president.
Hindi: Isi vajah se panchayat ko gaiye gay
He said that the Chief Commissioner of the income tax is a very senior person and does not visit every city. He is being invited to Gaya also because of the reputation, goodwill and the services that the Chamber has been providing to the people of the city. He said that the Chief Commissioner is also
The Prime Minister was addressing a function of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to commemorate 55 years of CBSE. He said that the Centre and the State Governments would work together for the well being of the students.
Translation:
Hindi: Woh bola ki, there is a strategy
He has asked them many questions.
Hindi:
F. Translate the following text from Hindi to English: Hindi: परीक्षार्थियों में सुधारों के लिए ईसाइ
They can help their parents in filing the return of income.
Hindi: बच्चे भी अपने अभियानदाताओं को शुष्क लेने स
You are 4,200, and I am 4,500. The 4,500 members are responsible for the collection of the income tax in the country.
Hindi: Woh kahate hain ki inaka sataa huva peer hai. Tum 4,
These people are to be strictly prohibited from discussing any details of the work in progress with outsiders. Any outsider who may come to the factory for any legitimate purpose, is to be escorted by a responsible officer who will also explain the nature of the work in progress.
Hindi: Ye sabhi officers j
He also said that the department is capable of collecting 55 lakh crores in taxes in the current financial year. He said that the department has the ability to collect 65 lakh crores in taxes in the next financial year.
Hindi: Vo kaha ki last financial year me department ne
He said the department should be lenient with the tax defaulters. Every one, even the state itself, has defaulted in paying taxes.
Hindi: Rajya adhyaksha Rai ne kaha ki woh commercial tax department ko apna record chahiye, jaha tak ki k
The Principal, Ms. Anita Nandan welcomed the gathering and also read the welcome address. The program began with a melodious song “Dil se dil tak” by the students. This was followed by the dance performance by the students. The students of class XII presented a beautiful dance drama on the
He also shared his views on the functioning of the institution. The head boy and head girl of the institution also shared their experiences.
Hindi: निदेशक, डॉ. एस. के. गर्ग, नीति
This award is given to the alumni who have achieved the top position in the University. 
Hindi: यह वर्ष अलमारी एवं छात्रों द्वारा विद
A special feature of this year’s function was the prize distribution ceremony for the top ten students in the 10th board exam results. In his address the Principal congratulated the winners and appreciated their achievements.
Hindi:
https://youtu.be/3W7Qlp4S7z8
They shared their views on the modernization of the school. The Chief Guest of the day, the District Magistrate and Collector, Navdeep Rinwa, addressed the gathering. The Chief Guest, the Principal and the Proctor of the college applauded the contribution of the school in the education of the children
He apprised the audience that the University has 12 scientific research centers and 20 departments, in which 32 research scholars are working on their doctoral research under the guidance of 33 teachers. He informed that the university has implemented the integrated learning program from 2016-17, in which
The function was a great success.
Hindi: Functions ke baad sabhi logon ko Kapde aur Mementos di gai thi. Yeh function bahut hi acha success hua tha.
4. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: I had a plan
He said that it would not only help in strengthening the country but also in providing quality education to the students. He said that with the help of this University the students would be able to get the best education and would be able to achieve their goals in their own way.
Hindi: पहल
Hindi: Arnav Chakravarti aur Jagvijay us par kaam kar rahe the. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The guests were served food on a silver platter. Hindi: Guests ko khoob paisa khilaya jata tha.
It was very good.
Hindi:मीघा सिंह और पृती कौशिक कर एक विचारधारा द्वारा ऐतिह
He was arrested on Saturday night. His arrest was announced by the NIA on Sunday.
Hindi: एक बंद घटना में इस से छेत्री अवस्था ल
NIA has said that Ujair Ahmed is a member of Indian Mujahideen and had fought in Afghanistan. Ujair Ahmed was arrested from Barabanki district of Uttar Pradesh and is currently in jail. The NIA has said that during the interrogation of Ujair Ahmed,
He had used the same strategy to bring Yaseen to Ansari. He, however, was unsuccessful in getting Yaseen to Ansari.
Hindi: Ahmed ney bahot saare maut ka badla liya tha aur Ansari paas laane ke liyey.
The NIA wants to know if Ahmed had any links to the IS. The NIA wants to go through his phone. It wants to track his social media activities. The NIA wants to know if Ahmed was radicalised by any preacher. It wants to know if he was influenced by some preacher
After the attack, the authorities found out that in the nearby locality, there was a bomb-making factory. It was a bomb-making factory that was run by the terrorists.
Hindi: इस जाल में बम के बनाने की
अहम नह तक भ रत क ल ए नए ल ग बन न ह त ह , ज सक ल ए अहम क मद द क अ
With this arrest, the NIA has managed to get a big breakthrough in the case.
Hindi: यह बताया जाता है कि नेशनल इंटेलिजेंस ए
It has been claimed that in the PMT 2012, one of the child of a private school owner had a seat in the medical college. The STF has exposed the scam in the medical entrance test. The child of a private school owner was given admission in the college, while his result
The STF has also found discrepancies in the enrolment numbers of 700 students in the 2013-14 academic year at the University of Mumbai. 
Hindi: STF में शिक्षा अधिकारियों म

Those students who will not be able to get admission again will get the fee of 1.5 years.
Hindi: Ab is bachhon ko admission milne par iske admission ka validity katne ka aur aage admission nahi karne par 1.5 saal ka fees refund
During the last 3 years, 7 students of the same batch have been caught cheating in different ways. The students were caught with fake certificates and with fake marksheets.
Hindi: STF ki patrakaritā ke baad medikal exāmeinendārī
It is expected that the list will be received by the end of the month.
Hindi: संबोधित प्राप्त विभाग एक पूर्ण सूची अश
The list will be sent to the PEB with the demand to revoke the eligibility of the applicants.
Hindi: यह लिस्ट विद्यार्थी के अनुदान को समग्र
(नहीं बल्कि इस बारे में विभाग भी अपने वकील का सलाह लेने की तैय
If the university wants to cancel the registration, it should be done after 2013.
Hindi: इस वक़्त वि टीसगणभाषा के छात्र तत शु
On the other hand, the STF officials have informed that the STF has not received any complaint from the Medical Education Department regarding the tender. 
Hindi: इस बारे में कार्य ओर्द्ध
For this, the college has also formed a committee.
Hindi: शिक्षा अधिकारी तरुण पिथोरे ने कहा कि, "यदि ज
The Director said that the letters issued to the students were not genuine. The admission letters were found to be forged. Officials said that the letters were issued to the students after they paid the fees.
Hindi: चिकित्सा शिक्षा क
The STF has also found that many students had taken admission into private colleges on fake documents. The STF had also said that the admission process had also been changed to fill up the vacant seats. According to STF officials, the candidates took admission into private medical colleges on forged documents.
Students cannot give personal belongings to other students. The student cannot enter the test room in the following scenarios: - If the student has been caught cheating on the previous test.
- If the student has been found guilty of cheating and has been asked to leave the school.
- If the student has a history
The decision was taken after the results of the students who were enrolled in these institutes were declared.
Hindi: यह निष्कर्ष है कि 2013 के पीएमटी परीक्षाओ
Hindi: इसमें से डिपार्टमेंट ऑफ़ मेडिकल एजुकेशन ने विभिन्न
The legislator has also pledged 10,000 litres of water per month from the Assembly fund to maintain the water cooler. The legislator said that the people in the area are reeling under a severe heat wave and the water cooler has been set up to meet the needs of the devotees.
He said that the water cooler was installed to facilitate the devotees.
Hindi: Lok sabha ke karyakarta ney kaha ki bahut log Gurudwara jaatey hain, lekin lack of proper water facilities ke karan yahan paani cooler laga
Hindi: इसके के विदेशी लोगो को गर्मी वर्ष बादलों में सर्दियों का जल प
Hindi: शराब में भी शिवर आपके लिए शराब से भी नगर नहीं चलेगा. English: You will have to
The
water will be sufficient for bathing and drinking purpose. The devotees
will not have to wait for hours to fill water. The water will be available
through taps, taps will be fixed in all devotees' rooms. The devotees will
be able to get water at the time
Students of different schools, teachers and parents also attended the event. The programme was started with the recitation of holy Guru Granth Sahib and a prayer by the teachers. The remaining part of the programme was held under the supervision of Gurudwara Committee members.
Hindi: आ
But something would have to be done for the weaker sections of the society. That is why the new government would have to either sell kerosene through ration shops or it would have to make provisions for its supply.
Hindi: Agar, aadhi doosari sarkar ne ap
After the sale of kerosene is stopped, kerosene will be available free of cost to the poor in the country. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has said that the sale of kerosene will be stopped from April 1, 2021. Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dh
Similarly, the south Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to stop the sale of kerosene by March 2013.
Hindi: इससे अत: कर्नाटक, तमिलनाडु एवं उत
One is the amount of kerosene that is being pilfered and the second is the money being spent on the subsidy. The money spent on the subsidy is so high that it is being used to subsidise not only kerosene but also diesel and petrol.
Hindi: Petrol ki
The second criterion is that, the electricity should be available to the poor people at a reasonable price.
Hindi: समग्रीकरण की पहली क्रिया है की ग्रामीण अन
There is a strong relationship between the existence of LPG distribution networks and the existence of a supporting industry. The distribution network consists of the suppliers, the pipeline, the storage facilities, and the filling stations.
Hindi: दूसरे प्रमाण है
PDS kerosene will continue to be sold to those households in rural areas which do not have LPG gas connections.
Hindi: Yeh hai ki rur ke yogya vyaktiyon ke rashtriy bhoomi par kshetraphal roop se jhanda
The petroleum products are available in abundant quantities and the ministry has no difficulty in meeting the requirements of petroleum products.
Hindi: Petroleum ki minstry apni puri tarah ready hai. Petrol aur gas ki kami nahi hai aur ministry ke pass koi koi bhi kami nahi
With the implementation of the scheme, the government will have to invest an additional Rs. 1.5 crores annually for each of the five million kerosene consumers in the city. Around Rs. 75 crores would have to be spent every year in order to provide subsidy on piped
Kerosene quota of Delhi and UP has not been affected. The state-run oil companies will set up HSD (high speed diesel) pumps in villages to promote use of cleaner fuels. Consumers who use LPG will get kerosene at a subsidised price and vice versa. A new quota
The quota for Haryana, which was 1.42 lakh kilolitres, was reduced to 45,000 kilolitres. The new quota for Himachal Pradesh, which had a quota of 39,000 kilolitres, has been reduced to 24,
This has resulted in a deficiency of about 10% and 16% in the allocation for these two states respectively. The other states are also facing a shortage of kerosene.
This has resulted in long queues at the kerosene outlets. Due to the shortage of kerosene, the
The overall store position has improved and is likely to sustain the current level of consumption. The overall kerosene consumption in the country has shown a decline of 20.3% in the current year over the corresponding period of the previous year, largely on account of the 80% reduction in the
The quality of kerosene will be checked on a regular basis by the Ministry. As the concerned state government has to pay the subsidy, it is up to the state government to decide whether it wants to give this subsidy to the consumers or to the oil companies.
Hindi: उद
80.
Hindi: एक प्रधानवकीय नहीं दूल्हा और पाँचवेंकी केनोलीन के दाम
We have to work together to find the solution to the problem of adulteration.
Hindi: Isliye aaj ham yahi kahenge ki jin logo ko kuchh galat karwane ka kaam karane mein mazaa aata hai wo hamare s
However, the state oil companies have been directed by the oil ministry not to sell kerosene at full price. Instead, they have to sell it at a discount to consumers. This discount has not been notified by the oil ministry yet.
Hindi: तथापि, स
Oil companies are facing a loss of Rs. 39 per litre because of a change in the government’s policy. The government set a target of selling kerosene for Rs. 0 per litre. The government had to bear a loss of Rs. 39 on every litre of kerosene
The Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Shri Veerappa Moily has said that the Government is committed to provide the benefits of the subsidy on kerosene to the poor. He said that the Government has so far been spending 35,000 crore rupees annually on kerosene subsidies.
The accused failed to disclose the real nature of the business to the investors.
Hindi: एक शेअर बेरोजगारी के आंदोलन के दशक बाद
The government will not leave any stone unturned to arrest the culprits and recover the lost money and assets.
Hindi: यह उम्मीद नहीं कि यह पहली बार है ज
Hindi: यह बीते करोड़पति ने पुलिस की ओर से जमा हो गया है इसलिए यह अ
They have cheated 1000s of customers of their hard earned money. They have cheated me too. They have not even returned my 1 paisa. You can check with the police and the exchange. People who have been cheated by them have also filed a case against them in the court.
The investors were convinced that they would get high returns by investing in the software. But the actual intention of the executives was to make money from investors. This money was then invested in real estate. This is a case of forgery and fraud.
Hindi: टाइपास
He would then offer to sell them the same shares, at an even bigger discount. By the time the investors found out that they had been duped, the accused had already fled
Hindi: Iske liye ye sab karta hai. Isi se investor ko shares dikhate hai
This is called “insider trading”. The law was passed to prevent this. Under the law, if a person has confidential information which can affect the price of shares, he is not allowed to trade in shares.
Hindi: वह भी जो शेयर
The respondents had not actually purchased any shares of the company they were just trading in fictitious software in order to earn profits.
Hindi: Insaniyat mein koi shaaree kharidte nahin kiya, nahin koi karobar hua, kyunki kamal
Hindi: सरकार ने गुप्ता के गैंग के लिए सबसे महंगी घटना की अंकित क
This is the first time that such a big amount of money is being sought by any financial institution.
Hindi: अभियान का इस बार विपक्ष विपिर्यक्त कर
The police also found a mobile phone connection that was allegedly used for the illegal betting.
Hindi: जीतने वाले संजोष अमित सोनी की अभी निलं
Thereafter, they have to submit a complete data of their clients. They have to register the same with the cyber cell. They have to give the details of their clients and their investment pattern to the client.
Hindi: अ according to the cyber cell ADG, ASHOK DOH
Hindi: इसके बाद कंपनी को उसके ट्रेडिंग ने अपने साथ किसी और के द्वारा
This is the reason for the arrest of the accused.
Hindi: तो एजेंट के DEMAT खाता हो जाता है जिसमें शेयर खरी
The server was installed in Accsys Zone, 2nd Floor, Plot 13, Sector 30, Nerul, Navi Mumbai 400 706.
Hindi: Yeh company 24 september 2012 ko 13, sector 30, nerul , navi mumbai
The accused have cheated people by taking money in the name of slot machines, lottery, and pay and play investments. They have been trying to hide themselves by changing their names and addresses. The accused are in jail since then.
Hindi: अभी तक यह क
Most of them are running small and medium businesses. However, the police is not taking them seriously.
Hindi: अब तक इंदौर से लोगों ने कॉपीराइट
The company claims that the accountants are to blame.
Hindi: शेयर बेचकर तुरंत लाभ राशि अपने खाते में नही हु
I told them that the promised profit of the company was still not realised. When they asked me when it would be realised, then I told them that the company made a profit of Rs. 300 lakhs in the last financial year, and this profit would be distributed among the shareholders in the coming
This way, the value of the shares that the investor had bought would be higher, and the person who sold the shares would get a lower price. In the case of the share market, the investor has to buy and sell at a given price. If the buyer buys shares at a price of Rs
The accused are trying to escape from their liability. The accused have the habit of escaping from their liability. The accused are not repentant. They have no feeling of repentance. I do not trust the accused. The accused are incapable of paying the price which they have mentioned. I do not believe
The Company had also established a strong marketing network through its distributors and dealers. The Company had also appointed agents in Gujarat, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The Company had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Government of Karnataka for setting up a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the purpose
The company is now unable to pay the returns. The investors are agitated and have filed many cases. The company is unable to pay the returns and also pay the interest. The Company is now unable to pay any returns. The investors are agitated and have filed many cases. The police has started
They got the company registered with the SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India) and started legitimate business. But, the ownership remained with the original group of people that remain as the core. Their major source of revenue was the commission and brokerage they earned by misguiding and cheating the small
They are performing better than other teams in the world.

Hindi: इस टीम में खिलाड़ियों के लिए हर दिन नए टेस्ट म
The final game of the series was won by New Zealand, who scored 1/ 6 for 100 and the Bangladeshis were 1/ 4 for 98 at the end of the game.
Hindi: जब एक बड़ी
With this win, Bangladesh equalled Australia’s record of 3-0 whitewash in 2008.
Hindi: बांग्लादेश से न्यूज़ीलैंड ने द
The previous five victories were in the 1979, 1985, 1997, 1999 and 2003 World Cups. Bangladesh have won 7 of their last 10 matches in ODIs and have won 4 of their last 5 matches at home. New Zealand,
Bangladesh's only victory in New Zealand was in 2008-09. Bangladesh won the first two matches by 2-1.
Hindi: यह कार्यक्रम नूर लैंड अब्दु
The last batsman of New Zealand, who was caught by Mahmudullah, lost his wicket at 248 runs. But the New Zealand team could not win the game. The final score of the team was 243 runs.
Hindi: Bangladesh ke taraf se 248 runs ki target par
He hit 57 balls only 5 fours and a sixer. In the third ODI of the series, the team of India got the target of 260 runs, which was achieved by the team of India in 44.5 overs and 5 wickets. Ishant Sharma gave the
The match was played on 12 October 2011 at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium. The second T20 match is scheduled to be played on 14 October 2011 at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium. The match will start at 5:00 pm (IST). The match will be broadcast
However, Mominul Haque's (126) astonishing century helped Bangladesh to score 293 runs in 49.5 overs. In reply, India was all out for 147 runs in 31.5 overs and Bangladesh won the match by 146 runs.
Hindi: Earlier, Bangladesh
James Nisham took four wickets and Anderson five, and the total score of the opponents was 155.
Hindi: Anderson aur James Nisham kuchh wickets lekar ek sath the. James Nisham kuchh wickets lekar aur Anderson ek sath
The Indian batting was dismal as they were bundled out for 245 runs. The visitors were 0-0 in their second innings after the first day’s play was washed out by rain.
Hindi: Anderson 4 wickets ke liye 40 run le chuka hai, aur Nish
He broke the record of 2487 which was held by Habibul Bashar. Tamim became the first Bangladesh batsman who scored a double century in one day cricket. He achieved this feat against Sri Lanka at Dhaka in 2017.
Hindi: तमम् न
He is the first batsman to score 3,000 runs in ODIs. Tamim is the first batsman to score 1,000 runs in ODIs against three teams: Australia, South Africa and New Zealand. He is the first batsman to score 7,000 runs in
In the second match, Pakistan won the toss, chose to bat first and made 232 runs for the loss of eight wickets in 50 overs. In reply, Bangladesh could only make 218 runs for the loss of seven wickets in the stipulated 50 overs and lost by 14
The owner was traced and was informed of the theft. He was asked to come and take it back.
Hindi: जंगवाल ऊर्ध्व पर फैला स्थित पीछो के
I am a witness. Please release it as soon as possible. My name is Pramod Singh. I stay at room number 20, Sector 39, Noida. My contact number is 999-000-0000.
Hindi: Polis ne bike ko rakh k
No one has seen him since, and no one knows who took it.
Hindi: इस वाहन को कार्यकर्ता चोटी मेहता जी ने प्रद
The State Government has not taken any steps to renovate the building. This is a great injustice to the people of the city, who are paying high electricity bills. The building is also a threat to the safety of the employees working there.
Hindi: गेट साइट
There is no use of any safety measures in the factory.
Hindi: Sabhi kaamwalo ko ghatnaon ke dar se kaam karana pada hai. Factory mein kisi tarah ki safety measures ka koi use nahin hota.
- Translate the following text from
Hindi: दिन-दिन आँचल की तलाश के लिए परहेज कोड फूलती जा रही है. 
Answer
Now the headquarters of the municipal corporation, the building has various shops and offices on the ground floor and a library on the first floor. The building has an impressive stone entrance. The building is in the shape of a cross with a dome in the centre. The architectural style is Indo-Sarcenic which
The Power Board was given the responsibility to make an electrical distribution network, to fix overhead conductors, post electric poles and to establish lines for the distribution of electricity. It was decided that the building would be called ‘The Power Board Building’ after the Power Board took charge of it.
Hindi:
They used a very nice shade of yellow. It was a shade that I had suggested some time ago.
Hindi : Department ne ek bahut hi sundar rang ka paaint lagya. Yeh rang maine kabhi bhi kabhi kaha tha.
(Do not translate the words
The situation is critical, and we need to take immediate action.
Hindi: इस बिल्डिंग की बन्ध बनकर कोई काम करने की भी खु
Hindi: इस बैग की शोधताइबधीत है जो तक प्ल इस स्थल के रनके पे मिथक प
In two of these rooms, the plaster fell on the floor, and in two others, the plaster fell on the bed. No one got hurt, because the plaster fell before the occupants were in the rooms. However, one of the people in the household is pregnant, and she was in one of
( English to Hindi Translation)
Hindi: यह कसरत है कि यह एक महिला कर्मचारी से इन्ज़र्ज किया ग
Hindi: जेई और लेज़र कानूनी शारीरिक चिंता के लिए रिश्तेदार बचा
The new building will be much larger, and can accommodate 1100 employees.
Hindi: जल्द ही नए वास्तुभाषण जल्द ही बनाया जाए

They are so busy in making a lot of money for themselves that they don’t know the importance of security in their lives. But in the case of their families, they have installed bodyguards for their personal security.
Hindi: Yeh sab ke badle balidan ke liye kuch n
The road in front of the building has been blocked by the debris. Repair of the rooms is not possible. The rooms can be reconstructed only after acquiring the neighbouring plots. The residents are advised to vacate the building immediately.
Hindi: जेई के लिए त
The building is more than 10 years old and has many cracks in walls and floors. The building is also not well maintained. The building is also not earthquake resistant. The following picture shows the cracks in the building.
Hindi: इस ट टे पर उल
Hindi: रोहतक ने कबड्डी में राज्य में महिलाओं के खेल में पहली गैर ध
Hindi: लिंगा और जज्ज़़ण़वा द्वितीय और तीसरे पैसा चुने.
I congratulate the three teams and it is also my duty to congratulate the organizers and the officials of this tournament for the wonderful organization and the way in which this tournament was organized.
Hindi: इसी तरह, शतशत बास्क
Shri Ramgarh got the fourth position. The volleyball competition was held in Jajjhar. The volleyball competition was held among the students of the city.
Hindi: जजयज अंग्रजी रद उन
Ambala team consisted of five members and the Bhiwani team consisted of four members. Ambala team won 5 Gold medals, 4 Silver medals and 6 Bronze medals. The Rohtak team won 1 Gold medal and 3 Silver medals. The Bhiwani team
In handball, the Hissar team came first, the Jind team came in second and the Bhiwani team came in third place. In Khokho, the Rohtak team came first, the Sonepat team came in second and the Bhiwani team came
The team from the Bhiwani district has won the first position in the athletics and the team from the Rohtak district has won the second position in athletics. The team from the Hisar district has won the third position in the athletics.
Hindi: Bhiwani ki team ne
NNNN
GANDERBAL, SEPTEMBER 24: The District Development Commissioner, Ganderbal, Dr. Piyush Singla today reviewed the arrangements put in place for the conduct of the Annual Raj Bharti Shiksha Mela at Ganderbal with the concerned officers
Sportswomen's participation in the state under the age of 20 years has helped increase their health and well-being. The players have a positive impact on the rest of the community. It is equally important to provide girls with an opportunity to participate in sports. The aim of this study was to compare
There were six matches played on the opening day and six on the second day. The final match was played on the 31st of October between Sheesh Mahal and Kasturba Gandhi Girls College.
Translate the passage above from English to Hindi, using the correct Hindi words for the following English
The players should not only play for themselves but also for their families and their states. They should also remember that victory or defeat was a part of the game.
Hindi: अंग्रेज़ी आदीसी ने कहा क
He said that Congress had never expected that someone would question them and they would not be able to take it. Modi said that Congress had to be defeated. “Congress is finished. They have to be thrown out of power. It is time to send them packing,” Modi said. Modi said that there
It did not last long. I believe that there should be only one party government, so that the government could work in a better way."
Hindi: यह इस दिन के अवसर पर मोदी ने क
Now you are going to see the rule of one party.
Hindi: Tumne kai partiyon ke nirdesh dekhe hai. Ab tum dekhoogi ek parti ke nirdesh.
Answer: तुमने कई पार्ट
I call upon the leaders in the private and public sector and I call upon the entire community to join hands in this effort to make our country great. Let us together build a new India. Let this be the India that is the greatest in the world.
Hindi: Meri koshish hai
Country: India, Language: Hindi, Language: English, Currency: INR, Currency: USD, Currency: GBP, Currency: EUR, Time Zone: IST, Time Zone: GMT, Data Format: 24 Hrs, Time Format: 24 Hrs. Hindi: Set a few
The opposition party did what. The opposition party did what. The opposition party did what. The opposition party did what. The opposition party did what. The opposition party did what. The opposition party did what. The opposition party did what. The opposition party did what
Hindi: Kaun k
If the results are not good, the BJP government would not be able to rule, and a new government would come in. The process of development of the country would continue. But we are sure that we would have good results.
Hindi: Agar comparative results aate toh, ye k
In this regard the welfare schemes of the government are not just effective but also exemplary and the way the schemes are reaching the poorest of the poor and the marginalized is unique. In the last four and a half years, the schemes of Narendra Modi government have reached the poorest of the poor and the marginalized sections
The Prime Minister, along with the then Finance Minister and the Chief Economic Adviser, has worked for an economic revival and has provided a favourable environment for industry to flourish and for the growth of the economy.
Hindi: यह देश दर्शाता ह
He ate only roti and vegetables. He did not eat non-veg. He did not eat sweets, ice-cream, cold drinks, cakes or biscuits etc. He had no money to buy all this. He was very poor.
Hindi: गमी लड
The government was not providing him with any work. His family was getting weaker. He had no money to buy food. Thus, the poor man was reduced to starvation and died.
Hindi: (Parivartan) Parivartan ke samay, Congress ya unke mitr ke
My friends, you have been on the government for nine and a half years. What did you do? What is it that you have done? What is it that you have delivered to the people? In nine and a half years, have you been able to make a single mistake? In nine and
Why? Because the media is afraid of them. They are not afraid of us. If you don't ask them anything, they will also not say anything. But if you ask them, they will have to say something. They are afraid of us. The media is afraid of them. If you
It is now a question of its survival and it has to be saved from its own members. It has become a party of politicians but not a party of the people. The party is now only a party of individual leaders. It is now a question of the survival of Congress. The people of India
But they are not afraid of it either. They are the new breed of superheroes.
Hindi: Vahin media ko toh wapis nahi hoye. Par wo istemal bhi karte hain. Inhein new breed of superheroes kahate hain.
English
In the Loksabha you will answer to the public. You will answer to the public for all your actions taken in the government. You will answer to the public for all the promises made by you. You will answer to the public for all the things said by you.
Hindi: Lok
The BJP will publish its performance every year in the form of a report card. But, if the public decides on the Congress then what will be Congress' performance record for the public? It has no record. It has no record of corruption, nor has it made any policy. It has no record
Hindi: इन देश में गुफ्तगुफ्त करने वाला वर्तमान नीचे ही आना चाह
Hindi: Dilli mein kaun nahi hai, par Dilli mein kaun servent hai?
A: हिंदी: दिल्ली में कोई नहीं है, पर दिल
There were many balloons.
Hindi: कांग्रेस के दोस्तों इस दिन-दिन बालों निकला था। बालो
And in that test you failed miserably. You failed to bring down the prices of even a single essential commodity. You failed to create a single new job. You failed to deliver a single new house to the poor. You failed to give even a single rupee of benefit to the poor. You
The public will not be involved in the process of conducting the examination. It will not be involved in the process of grading or marking the papers. The public will not be involved in the process of identifying who has passed the examination. The public will not be involved in the process of awarding the certificates
Hindi: गूगल, सैमसंग, हुआओवर से नॉर्टेल पेटेंट्स पर न्याय ल
Asian companies including Samsung and Taiwan’s HTC Corp were also sued for patent infringement, WiLAN Inc, which is based in Ottawa, said in a statement.
Hindi: व्हिलन इंस्टीट्यूट ने
Rockstar, a consortium of Apple Inc, Microsoft, EMC Corp, Sony Corp and RIM, sued the Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC in 2011, and the Korean firm’s parent, Samsung, in 2012.
Hindi: Rockstar, Nortel patents for $4.5
They plan to release the new game in the coming months. The game has been designed by a multiple award-winning designer. It is expected to be a blockbuster game. It is the first 3D game that has been created by the company.
Hindi: Rockstar ek joint venture company hai,
Google has denied that they are guilty of infringing the patents.
Hindi: गूगल को बेहद युग पत्रों को हमला हो रहा है। ग
The lawsuit said the patents were bought with the intention of using them to sue Google.
Hindi: Patents इस पुरुषों के बारे में जो पत्रकारी के बारे
NVIDIA said it was not commenting on the ruling, but would defend its patent rights vigorously. Apple did not respond to a request for comment. The iPhone maker has previously said it is careful to not copy technology from competitors.
Hindi: संसुद, हुवाई
While the Samsung Galaxy S4 is the most popular Android phone, which of the big three will control the Android market? Hindi: सैमसंग, हुवाई, एचटीसी सभी फोन
In July 2011, Google and Apple reached a preliminary agreement to avert a bidding war for Nortel's patent portfolio by agreeing to swap patents and agree not to sue each other for past patent infractions. Apple and Microsoft jointly bid $4.5 billion for the patents. In August
Just before Google’s winning bid was due, Softbank offered to acquire Yahoo for $31 per share, $23 more than the per-share price Yahoo agreed to pay Microsoft. Yahoo did not immediately accept the offer. Softbank later increased its bid to $37 per share, but Yahoo declined to increase
The company is a treasure trove of patents, but it also has a significant patent portfolio in mobility and also in cloud computing. Google, may use this patent portfolio to protect its Android operating system from legal battles.
Hindi: रॉकस्टार ने
"Google has made, and continues to make, infringing copies of the patents-in-suit in the United States for sale and use in the United States through its Android platform." Translation: “Ubututtu ishara ke liye Google ne pera bhar diya lekin v
The company is seeking a jury trial.
Hindi: रॉकस्टार ने गूगल का पैटेंट भ्रमण में कार्यरती क
since 1953
Hindi: Egypt 1953 mey kee charchit hidustani tyoharon ke bad kee 1953 mein kee charchit ek sabse shreshth maadhyam se charchit hidustani tyoharon ke bad
Morsi was sworn in before the Supreme Constitutional Court after his election victory was confirmed.
Hindi: मोहम्मद मोरजी लिखा वादा कर रहे हैं कि वह
Egyptian security forces arrested six alleged members of an al Qaeda-inspired militant group accused of planning attacks inside the country, state-run media reported. The suspects, who were arrested in Cairo and the northern Mediterranean city of Alexandria, belong to the Ansar Beit al-Maqdis group, which has claimed responsibility for
Morsi's rise to power has been a constant source of contention. He has faced fierce criticism from secular and liberal opposition groups and from the country's powerful military for the perceived rush to implement his Islamist agenda.
Hindi: कहाँ व राष्ट्री
He was welcomed by Germany's ambassador to Egypt, Peter Beerwerth, and the pro-tem chief justice, Ahmed Ali Abdelaziz, according to state television. Abdelaziz read out the oath to Mursi, who swore to "preserve the republican system and to respect the constitution and
"I will appoint a government that will work to meet the aspirations of the people."
Hindi: "Hum anubhav karte hai ki aaj hamara aur aaj ka is desh ka saamna kuch aisa mauka hai jo humare jeevan ke li
"I say to all the people: do not forget the sacrifices of martyrs who gave their lives in the revolution."
Hindi: "Aaj Egypt ke log kuch aaisa samay laye hai jisse unhein har ek insaan ke liye ek naya jee
He was immediately taken into a room filled with the interior minister, prime minister and the head of the armed forces.
Hindi: इस वेबसाइट के हिंदी अनुवाद के लिए
The 67-year-old topped the first round of Egypt's historic presidential election on 23 May but was forced to run-off against his main rival, Ahmed Shafiq, a former air force general and prime minister under Mubarak.
Hindi: जो कहाँ क
The Brotherhood's youth movement, the April 6 Youth Movement, has called for demonstrations in support of him on Friday. Morsi's victory was widely anticipated because he was the only candidate not disqualified by the commission. The other three leading candidates were Mubarak-era politicians who were forced from the race
"I will work to implement the constitution and the rule of law and to respect the rights of all Egyptians, men and women, and to protect the independence of the judiciary and to establish the principles of transparency and accountability." Morsi, a 60-year-old engineer, won Egypt's first free presidential
However, Morsi did not show up and the inauguration ceremony was postponed until 3 p.m. Egyptian time (1300 GMT).
Hindi: मोर्सी अगले दिन दोपहर के बाद क
Hindi: उन्होंने नयी शायरी आर्मी बैंड के साथ एक प्रवचन दिया जो ह
He was the army’s spokesman and supreme commander of the armed forces in the summer of 2013.
Hindi: वायरल A न्यूज़ के अनुसार, जुलाई 2013
The country is under a state of emergency and the military is widely seen as the only institution that can maintain order and prevent the country from sliding into chaos.
Hindi: उन्होंने मुकामिनश्वरायण क
The Muslim Brotherhood's student union, for instance, was born at the university. In the early 2000s, the campus became a rallying cry for the Islamists who made up the opposition to President Hosni Mubarak, who was in power for three decades.
Hindi: 190
Morsi's supporters accused the generals of engineering a coup. They vowed to press on with eight months of protests if he is not allowed to take office. 
Hindi: एक नीलामी चयनित उम्मीद
I am ready to face the trial tomorrow, he said.
Hindi: इस ल े पूरी कृति को तुरन्त पढ़ें, और जब तक क
He denounced Mubarak's regime as "the Zionist occupation" and said that Mubarak was "a pawn in the hands of the Zionist regime." Morsi also said that the Egyptian army is, in fact, the Israeli army.
Hindi: Morsi ka Tahrir Square ke sam
Let's see some of the best photos of the week. Please send your photos and news to the following e-mail address.
Hindi: Hum har roj hamare readers ke mail dwara hundre
The first announcement is the establishment of an Indian center for classical music in Fukuoka. Such centers have been set up in a number of other countries like Japan, USA, Canada, UK, France, Italy, Spain and Australia. This center will be a great asset to the Sangeet Research
A couple of minutes later the photographer tells me that they are photos of him and his family. In the first photo is his wife, who is a nurse and was taking a break next to his children. He explained that he was making a visit to their home and was going to give them some medicine
Each photo has been selected for its beauty, but also for the way it captures the essence of the place. For example, the photos of Scotland. In this beautiful country, you find a mixture of nature, history and culture. Scotland is the land of whisky and kilts. Yet, it's
The composition is really effective, and the lights and shadows have been balanced beautifully. The way the subject is placed in the frame is perfect, and the photographer has captured a beautiful moment. The tone of the photograph is perfect, and the photographer has used the editing tools with utmost care. Great job!
Go to the door, open it up. I think you'll be pleasantly surprised.
Hindi: Agar aapko nahi jante hai, aapko dekhna hai. Chhanv le. Mujhe koi aisa lagta hai koi aapko khushi

He said the US will review the surveillance programs.
Hindi: अमेरीका का कई तरह की गभरती को अवगमन पाना चाहते ह
Hindi: वह भी कहा कि नएरल लोगों को बिल्कुल प्रत्येक नया
आधारशास
He said Pakistanis should not be afraid to speak out about their government's shortcomings.
Hindi: केरी की जाँच लघु तथा लक्षणों के लिए बन
Hindi: यांनी वर पृष्ठभूमी घेण्याची तुलना करण्यासाठी येथे ल
The Committee wishes to make it clear that any form of torture or ill-treatment is totally unacceptable.
Hindi: Par, kai baar hamari is prakar ki prano ko istemaal kiya jaa saktaa hai jise aap bataa sakte h
The bill would require court approval before the NSA intercepts and tracks e-mails, phone calls, and cell phone conversations.
Hindi: एक की तारीख है जब उस ने पाकिस्त
And to provide a mechanism for the communication of these issues to the public.
Hindi: Ye yehi kehte hai ki yeh monitoring samajik samasyao ko samajik samasyao ke prati samajik taur par jagrukta ke saath saath sam
They said it would help to make the Web more accessible for disabled people in the U.S. and abroad.
Hindi: यह विधि ने सेनट उदयोगों के लिए उ
I am saying this because I have been a victim of it.
Hindi: Ye companies ke data centres bhi NSA ne hack kar liya hai. Maine ye kiya hai kyunki maine bhi is par victim hua hai.

share|improve this question

edited Mar
The house of representatives then passed the bill by 336 votes to 75. The bill will now be sent back to the Senate for consideration of some amendments.The bill aims to provide new guidelines for the collection and use of electronic data by the spy agency. The amendments are designed to protect privacy and civil
However, what is not clear is the extent to which the Indian government will be able to implement these measures. Further, there is no assurance that the government will not misuse these powers in the future.
Hindi: इस बिल में पर्यावर
The Government will publish an annual report on the use of these powers, including details of the number of applications made, the number of warrants issued, and the number of people affected.
Hindi: निःशुल्क, अनिवार्य
If the president vetoes the bill, then it must come back to the House of Representatives and the Senate and they must vote to override the president’s veto. If they vote to override the veto, the
But the chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Dianne Feinstein, said the program is necessary to obtain the information necessary to protect the country against terrorists. She cited cases where the program was used to prevent attacks and save lives. "The program has saved lives," she said.
Hindi: Committee
The role of the judiciary should be strengthened, and a better selection procedure for judges should be put in place.
Hindi: कई देशों में दावा किया जा रहा है कि ब
The privacy of an individual should not be violated. The personal details of an individual should not be disclosed without his consent.
Hindi: ₨ तुकृद भी, निजकारों की गुज़क्त
This has been seen as a victory for the tech companies as they will be able to continue to provide security, privacy and confidentiality to the users of their products.
Hindi: अब तक गूगल, यूपीएच
They also said that these companies are in the habit of giving information to the government and it is important to the companies that they are able to defend themselves in court.
Hindi: ये कंपनियां सताते हैं कि उ
The documents reveal that the NSA has been working to gain access to the innermost secrets of the telecommunications and Internet companies. The NSA has been spying on almost every human being in the world. It has been monitoring e-mails, telephone conversations and Internet records.
Hindi:
Humare liye achch
Hindi: America ke pradhanshtriyon ke paanch saal ke antargat NSA ke sambandh me hui paheliyan sundar karyon ka prashikshan karane ya pratiyogita men is prakar hui
He will resolve the issues of the people whether it is in the field of education or health.
Hindi: राज्य मीडिया मदर अजय राय ने कहा था की
Hindi: भागत छत्रापत्र के अंदर वैसे छत्रापत्र के नगर अंदर वैसे भाग
Hindi: Wo yahan bahut hi jyada jaante hain.
Direction (Q.16-20): What will come in place of ? if the three laws of ratio are applied?
16. If 2 : 4 : 6 :: 6 : 8 : ? a
Translated in Hindi:
Hindi: Wo Chhattisgarh me chalega, November 16th tak. 3. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: He will travel in Chhattisgarh continuously until November 16th.
Hindi: Wo ch
This time, the Congress has fielded a large number of Jharkhandi candidates in the state. This is a clear indication of the increasing influence of Jharkhandi voters. The Congress has fielded 83 Jharkhandi candidates in 90 seats, while the BJP
And I will be the next one to join the BJP.
Hindi: एकदम देश के वर्तवण सहयोगी बीजेपी के इस सम
The Congress high command has been concerned over the recent political developments in Chhattisgarh. It has suggested that JMM should help the Congress in neighbouring Chhattisgarh. The party was of the view that the JMM's support would be decisive in the ongoing Chhattisgarh
The decision was taken at a meeting of the party leaders held in Chaibasa.
Hindi: जी एम एम प्रदर्शन इस ने अनुमति अनुमति अन
The JMM has also said that the party will support the Congress in elections.
Hindi: जीएमएम ने छत्तीसगढ़ राज्य आदेश में स
Dr. Vikesh Chauhan has been promoted from Associate Professor to the post of professor in the Department of Anatomy, Dr. Harish Chander from Assistant Professor to the post of Associate Professor in the Department of Orthopaedics, Dr. Dinesh Kumar from Assistant Professor to the post of
On Friday, the Himachal Pradesh government issued a transfer order of Neeraj Sharma, Senior Superintendent of CMO office, Simla.
Hindi: भारतीय सरकार नीरज शर्मा के स
Hindi: उनका अधीक्षक डीडीयू,सिमला में हुआ है 
Answer(s): 

- उनका अधीक
He has been away from his work since last week.
Hindi: उल्टे अधिकारियों ने उनको शिमला डेंटल कॉलेज स
He has been appointed the Assistant Engineer. The previous Assistant Engineer, Rajesh Sharma, was transferred from the department.
Hindi: Irrigation and Public Health Department Assistant Engineer, Ashok Kumar Choudhary, Ayi Kangra sub-division se Dharamsala zone tak transfer. Assistant
He will take charge of the office on the 27th instant. The people of Kangra sub-division are requested to accord him a respectful welcome on his arrival to Kangra. The people of Kangra sub-division are also requested to desist from sending any more complaints and applications to His
The bail plea is based on the presumptions that General Musharraf is under grave danger from the militants.
Hindi: अधीक्षक रक्षा एकवाच अपराध मौलाना
In all likelihood, Musharraf will be arrested in the case. The hearing was held with the participation of Musharraf’s lawyer, Anwar Mansoor Khan. According to the lawyer, the prosecution has accused Musharraf of treason. The lawyer said that there is no evidence against Mushar
This event has resulted in heated debate amongst the people and the press. The militant cleric had resorted to the use of force to impose the Taliban system in Pakistan and had no respect for the law of the land or the Constitution of Pakistan. He had preached against democracy, equality and the rule of law
He has already announced that he will soon come back to Pakistan. He has been trying to come back for some time but he was not allowed to do so by the interior ministry. This is why he is not well these days. He said he will come back to Pakistan as soon as his health is
But Mr. Musharraf, was prime minister at the time and was widely believed to have had a hand in it. The cleric’s son, Ahmed Yar Khan, who is now an opposition politician, said in an interview that he lost hope of getting justice after the government refused to prosecute any
The 68-year-old is charged with high treason for imposing martial law in 2007 and suspending the Constitution, charges that could carry the death penalty. He was arrested on December 23 on his return to Pakistan from self-imposed exile in London and Dubai.
Hindi: इस
He also said that Musharraf has been implicated in the case only because he was the President at the time of the incident. The counsel also said that Musharraf's name should be removed from the FIR. The complainant representative also said that the case should be transferred to the court of a
He asked the court for two weeks more time.
Hindi: इंग्लिश: अधायक को अदालत में इस केस में पदपत्र के
Which indicates that Mushraf will not be free until then, and will be in the custody of the Pakistani government. Musharf is in the office of the president of the country for the first time. After the court verdict, Mushraf was taken into custody. The court has decided to send him to
The members discussed the welfare of the disabled and also the problems they face.
Hindi: गुरुवार, चुन संगठन दलदल के लिए आरोग्य क
The session saw the participation of over 1,500 delegates from across the world.
Hindi: यह वह भारत में हुये थे, जिसका आयोजन व
The administration has been asked to provide them with written information about the land on which they are living and the compensation they would receive.
The memorandum was accepted by the SDM, who assured the disabled that they would be provided with a written reply.
Hindi: में देश
He said that the disabled should not be discriminated against in employment. He also said that the disabled should not be inhibited in seeking employment. The disabled should be given preference over others in government jobs. Vinod Sharma also said that persons with disabilities should receive special concessions for their education. He said that
Hindi: छोटे वैज्ञानिकों को अपने विभागों में संघीय विरोध की आ
The monthly pension should be raised from Rs. 400 to Rs. 2,000.
Hindi: Ek mahinay ke liye pension ko Rs. 400 se Rs. 2000 se badha chahiye.
Salvation Army School has trained 30% of its staff
As the number of the disabled in the district is quite high, the rehabilitation centre can be set up in the premises of the hospital.
They put up a dharna in front of the DC office and demanded that they be provided with a job under the employment guarantee scheme. They have also demanded that the government should construct 800 houses for them and that the government should rehabilitate them in panchayats. They also demanded that the
They said that the meeting was constructive and positive. They asked that their demands be speedily met. They said that the meeting at least gave them an opportunity to express their problems. They urged the government to consider their problems and help them.
Hindi: "Upal, Dipti SDM
He also stated that a meeting on this was being held with the district administration.
Hindi: नाशेरा में संदेश परून शासकीय विभाग के वक
This is the first time an Indian has been convicted for such a crime.
Hindi: अमेरिकी देश में एक भारतीय चिकित्सक को फरू
The court determined that Dr. X was liable for fraud.
Hindi: डॉक्टर ने किसी की नहीं पुरुष को अगर चिकित्सा स
The sentence is to be followed by three years of supervised release and a fine of $15,000. The sentence was handed down by U.S. District Judge, Timothy DeGiusti.
Hindi: वेस्टर्न डिस्ट्रिक
00 and suspended for 6 months by the International Cricket Council (ICC) for a breach of the ICC Code of Conduct. He was also banned for 3 years from all forms of cricket
Hindi: उन्होंने एक तीसरे
The final amount was either $ 2.5 million or $ 1.5 million. In any case, the amount was reduced to $ 1.5 million.
Hindi: Bhandari ko Medicare ko bhi mafi milne ki order di gayi. Magar final amount
He was put in prison with his son.
Hindi: उसके कुछ सुविधाएं ले लिए किया गया था और उसने अन
He was arrested for practicing medicine without a license. He was released on bail. He was accused of practicing medicine without a license. The news was published in newspapers. The English-language newspaper “The Star” published the news.
Hindi: डॉ. भंडार
The jury had also found him guilty of possession of marijuana and cocaine with intent to distribute in 2010.
Answer:
Hindi: अरहर लस एक फडल दनदट जरनदल बर
A man was accused of raping a 13 year old girl. He was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Hindi: इस साल अप्रैल में एक मामला फेडरल कोर्ट
The judge of the court, therefore, ordered the accused to be taken into custody. The police, subsequently, took the accused into custody and produced before the court as per the order of the court. The judge, in the court, examined the accused and remanded him to jail custody for 7
They will not use force, unless they are attacked. Please do not invite such attacks.
Hindi: Paramilayat ke dalon ne, baago mein se town ke liye, security ke liye, apni sena banayi hai. Unhen koi laga len
The situation is normal.
Hindi: Laskhar-e-Taiba ke shakal mein, haqeeqat jis sey yaad kariye, aap shahid logon ko yaad kariye
English: If this is the situation then it is a
It is a huge operation in which the police are trying to find out how many naxalites are involved in this operation. So far, the police have been able to arrest only one naxalite, who is being interrogated.
Hindi: Police ke officeron ke anusaar
All the areas are being covered and 10 more platoons are being requested from the higher authority.
Hindi: जिले में 80 प्लाटून डिप्लोमेट कर दी ग
Now it is time to go to the valley.
Hindi: सभी दल उनके प्रतिनिधियो से विभिन्न नगरों से आए ह
During 40 hours of polling, 400 polling stations in 6 districts remained under threat.There are 11,000 polling booths in the state which are guarded by 1.5 lakh security personnel. There were 451 companies of paramilitary forces, 66 companies of the CRPF. In
Please check the message and act accordingly.
Hindi: एक जाँच के लिए एक चेतावनी जारी की गई है. यदि मै
The forces are now conducting night operations.
Hindi: Ingleesi: Chhatraon ko poora karane aur naxal ko pahli jhanki dekar kar rahe hain. Chhatraon ko ab raat ko bhi pahli jh
He said more than four hundred policemen, along with DIG, SP, ASP and City Magistrate, will be deployed. Mr. Dubey said CCTV cameras will also be installed to prevent any untoward incident. He said security of the famous Lathmar Holi festival will also be beefed up
There are four soldiers at each of these places. The paramilitary forces are present in civilian clothes. These forces are equipped with proper weapons.
Hindi: प्रद आयरिन परॉलिनेरल सैन्यप
But they also ask people to follow the rules and be respectful to them. They are also seeking help from the community. Please help us.
Translated to Hindi:
English: Police patrolling karne ke liye bhi hain. Lekin unko bhi padhai karte hain
The goons are being detained and they are not being set free.
Hindi: Gundaon ke bhed badhaane ke sath sath unko thoke jaane bhi kiya jaa rahe hain. Gundaon ko thokar diya ja raha
People are being sensitised to maintain peace and harmony and to prevent incidents of violence. The State police have been asked to stay alert and keep a close watch on the situation.
Hindi: चुनावों और दिवाली के द
He used to beat him with a stick. He was forced to work as a labourer.
Hindi: बाद में वह अपने दिन को शैतानी करने लगा
She refused to undergo it. The doctor was arrested by the police. She, however, successfully delivered the child in the hospital.
Hindi: Ek baar fir se, uske paas kuch vishwas nahi tha, usne ek abortion ke liye doctor ko hospital le li
But as she thought of the love and care her father had given her, she could not drink and so he had to kill her with a dagger.
Hindi: To ye usne usse bhi ghar le gaya aur uske paas aake usko peene ka ilaj
The minor's family then approached the officers at the local police station. The police officers told the family that they could not help them because there was no law against child marriage.
Hindi: अगर बेटी के बारे में य
It is said that the boy was in love with a girl who lived nearby. The girl’s family did not approve of the relationship and the girl’s father threatened to kill the youth and his family. In the early hours of the morning, the father, along with the youth’s brother, tied up
Ramesh was a good friend of her father and he used to invite him for dinner at his house. As a result of this, Gaurav and Poonam got close to each other. After gaining her father her consent, she married Gaurav. From the very beginning, she
Hindi: वह उसके घर लेकर उसको अपने घर में अपने दोस्त के रूप में अपने
Hindi: वह उसको अगर बार बार आज्ञा देता था तो उसकी प्रत्येक रात उस
It was said that he wanted to marry her. In the morning he took her to the bank of the Narmada and then to the caves of Achanakmar. He settled in a small house close to the caves. As the 2 and ½ years passed by, the number of
He later confessed that he had killed her for money.
Hindi: 21th ko usne use medicine ke taur par kutte ke paanv ko goli de di thi. Usne kaha ki usne usko marne ke liye uske paise ke liye
Hindi: लड़की की घबराहट बढ़ी, उसकी नज़रदारियों ने उसे बी.
So, they eventually separated.
Hindi: अब तक, यह दोनों को इस रचन को अपनी अपने या अपने आप स
In that fight also, the accused attacked Anand with a knife and killed him. The accused and the witnesses are not the same.
Hindi: वह भी नहीं था कि अनंद के ब्रथर
The police are trying to arrest them as soon as possible.
Hindi: Inspector B.D. Juyal ne kaha ki investigation ke dauran ek case 276, 323, 506 section ke anusar filed kiya gaya hai gaurav, his brother Anand, mother
Please contact the SI in the above mentioned number.
Hindi: यहाँ केस है राजेंद्र कुमार, आप उस नंबर पर सीआई क
Think again. The internet is massive and is full of travel information, but finding what you need is not always easy. Booking your travel arrangements online can be a tricky business, especially if you're the type of person who needs to talk to someone face-to-face before making a decision. If that's
They're still expanding in the UK. They're opening new stores in London and elsewhere. They're bringing in new customers and they are profitable. They're doing all the right things. They appear to be doing very well. The only thing that they can't seem to do is grow online. The
It will also benefit from a weaker yen and a drop in jet fuel prices following the oil industry downturn.
Hindi: फ़ासफ़ाफ़ाले तय हैं की कंपनी अप
The company said its performance for the final quarter of the year was slightly weaker than expected but that the final three months of the year were still "in line with the board's expectations". The company said it was on track to complete the integration of its two businesses, Flight Centre and Corporate Travel Management,
However, it will fall short of the $312.3 million profit the company is targeting in 2014/15.
Hindi: यह एक वार्षिक रिटायरमेंट फंड क
As well as a 44 per cent boost in profit, Flight Centre had also delivered a 24 per cent increase in revenue to $4.3 billion.
Hindi: Managing director Graham Turner ne kaha tha ki Flight Centre ne 8% paise ka profit kiya hai aur yeh
"Our franchisees have performed well, especially in the U.S. and India. We expect continued momentum for our U.S. business in the second half of the year, and we're pleased with the progress in India."
Hindi: "कीवर्ड, अ
During the May quarter, we were able to increase both New Zealand and Australia revenues by 5% to $1.6 billion, while our Australian operations were up 7% and the New Zealand operations were up 3%.
Hindi: Yeh hamare liye bahut hi profitable
The Group's strong focus on business efficiency and customer service has been a key factor in our ability to deliver a strong commercial result despite a number of challenges during the year.
Hindi: अस्पताल में अस्पतालों म
However, this was offset by the fact that Flight Centre's corporate business is the most profitable, so overall the company reported an 11% increase in underlying profit.
Hindi: भरतीयया वहाँ भी एक समस
The international business, however, was struggling in the tough European market and had seen losses mount in its first half.
Hindi: यह अध्यापक की बात है कि ये पूरे साल
The company has been tipped to be the first Australian travel agency to open a store in India.
Hindi:।।।।।।।।।।।।।।।।।।।
Please clarify whether the US has spied on these two companies and whether it has spied on the Indian government using these companies?

Question 3: Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: Recently in a media report it was said that the NSA has also spied on German Chancellor Angela
Snowden’s mission was to expose the US government’s surveillance programs, which it runs in partnership with the British government. The documents reveal that the NSA and GCHQ, the British equivalent of the NSA, have been intercepting huge amount of data from Internet services such as Yahoo and Google. The documents
The data was collected from a wide range of companies, including Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Yahoo, Paltalk, AOL, Skype, YouTube, Apple and PalTalk. A document described the NSA program as “a multi-billion dollar boondoggle” and said it had “checked out”.
It was a commercial secret that Google and Yahoo wanted to keep. They did not want to divulge it to their competitors because they knew it would be valuable to them.
Hindi: यह हमारे एजेंसियों ने
The report also stated that the internal CIA security was overwhelmed and that the perpetrators were able to replace the security software with a Trojan virus that made it possible to monitor and control the targeted computers remotely. This has been the second largest cyber attack in the field of espionage ever.
Hindi: जन
Information was sent in many different ways, including voice, data and image files. There was also a range of options for how messages were sent, including instant messaging or leaving a voice message.
Hindi: यहाँ देखे इस लेख म
The National Security Agency is collecting the telephone records of millions of U.S. customers of Verizon under a top secret court order issued in April. The order was granted by the foreign intelligence surveillance court and gave the government permission to collect calling records or “telephony metadata,” including dialed number, call duration
However, this is not true. The U.S. government can run a program without a court order, if the program is considered to be in the vital interest of the State, of course, the relevant laws (FISA) will be respected.
Hindi: मैं द
I am not aware of this. I have never heard of this."
Hindi: आज के समय में नोएडा नेशनल सत्रीटी एसआई एंड इनफार्मेशन
The spy agency is now scrambling to minimize the damage caused by its now-public surveillance program. The German government is considering its options. The U.S. State Department has already expressed regrets about the snooping.
Hindi: रोयां रही ठोकर
The United Nations said it was told by the U.S. State Department that communications between the U.N. headquarters in New York and its offices in Geneva and Vienna were not being monitored. The U.S. government has issued assurances about communications at the U.N. headquarters, the U.N. said in
This statement came after a senior official of the United Nations said that the U.N. has been monitoring the U.S. communication system for the past several years. The U.N. has confirmed that it has been monitoring all the phone conversations and emails of the U.S. officials for the past 5
Shah was arrested on May 15 for his alleged role in the 2006 killing of a Congress worker, Sohrabuddin Sheikh, in a fake encounter and the killing of his wife Kausar Bi and a witness Tulsiram Prajapati. Shah is accused of receiving the
The journalists' representative of the media (news agency) Prakash Chandra, Ravi Kant and Krishna Nandan were also present.
Hindi:
जयंती कुमार जन प्रेशर, नेशनल कन
The mortal remains of Mr. Shah were brought to the airport where the emotional farewell was given.
Hindi-जिला प्रधान श्री कुमार श्री शाह , अपने परिव
The Shaktipeeth mother, Mangala Gauri, is the form of Divine Mother in the form of purity (Sudhi). She is the form of Dharma. Therefore she is called Mangala Gauri. She is the mother of all the Vedas. She is the
He was given a special welcome by the students in front of the Vishnupad temple. He went straight to the Nani Adarsh Vidyalaya where he met the students. He talked to them about their future plans. He told them, “I had the same wish when I was
But, he said that, he would make it public at the time of the program itself. He said that, Mr. Shah is a renowned leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party and is a very popular leader. He is a very capable leader, not just in the party, but also
.
Translation: विद्यालयों को मैथ्स, लिखना और व्याकरण के अध्ययन करवान
Pupils will also need to study a play by a contemporary playwright. The course will also encourage pupils to develop their understanding of literary terms and will foster pupils’ ability to write analytically and show sensitivity to the perspectives of others.
Hindi: हंगामे प्र
one of the questions in the new "core" paper will ask the student to "compare and contrast" the content and style of two different texts, such as poems, extracts from novels or plays or articles.
Hindi: एक आधारशब्द
The decision to replace A-level English literature with a course that combines the study of English literature with language has caused outrage among teachers, who say it will lower standards.
Hindi: Ek combined English literature aur language course kat liya jayega. English literature ki study ko ek combined course ki help
We will also encourage the teaching of a second language.
Hindi: विधार्थीयों को 2015 तक एक विषयी विषयी पाठ्यक्रम
In a radical shake-up of the curriculum, they will be the only subjects taught in primary schools from 2014. The key stages will be scrapped and replaced with a national curriculum.
Hindi: आधुनिक यथार्थी अ
In 2019, Hindi will be introduced as a compulsory subject for all the 10th class students. In the past, Hindi was included in the compulsory subjects of class 9th but next year it will be a compulsory subject of class 10th. English will be replaced with Hindi in
The new GCSEs will be graded in grades 1-9, with 9 the top grade.
Hindi: एक अलग निर्देश, Ofqual, जांच के अधिक
HIndi: Yaha par summer ke mahine mein, Michael Gove, jinke pass Education Secretary ka pradhanmantri kaam hai, bol rahe hain, “Public confidence ko restore karne ke liye kai prakar ke examination system ke reform ki jar
And it is not only in the classroom that India falls behind. Only 5 per cent of Indian children have access to computers, compared with 95 per cent of children in the US, according to a 2002 report by the National Science Foundation. The US has 26.1 million students
(Source: Wikipedia)
Hindi: भारत में स्कूलों में दिनांक प्रदर्शन संबंधी उत्तरों की
The move is likely to be welcomed by teachers, who have long argued that the current system is too heavy on English, and not enough on maths. The head of the Harris Federation of academies, Sir Dan Moynihan, said: "The fact that maths will again become the priority subject is
The syllabus will also be revised to contain the following sections:
• Money and financial markets
• Bonds and bond valuation
• Stocks and stock valuation
• Capital budgeting
• Risk and return
• Portfolio theory and asset management
• Capital markets
• Options and option pricing
• International
We have given the court a copy of the judgment. The press is free. The matter is sub judice. We will not allow the media to report on the matter.
Hindi: Bhartiya Hukumat Chintan ke saath saath usake Pradhan Mantri ne
The court has said that they can only tell the media not to report names of the victims in rape cases. The court also said that sexual offenses are so serious in nature that media reports of such cases could hamper the trial in the court. The court has said that it is the duty of the
The lawyer further explained that a woman is the most important factor in this case. There is no rape case that goes this far without a woman's testimony.
Hindi: असराम के अध्यक्ष कहा कि असर
There are many instances where the reporting guidelines were not followed but things have improved since last few years. The reporting of clinical trials involving children and those in rural areas and in other countries is poor. We are working with the Ministry of Health to develop a policy to encourage reporting of clinical trials at the state
For example, a meeting with the parties could be held, the court could also appoint a committee. The court also said that the ‘status quo’ should be maintained.
Hindi: आख़िरी बार सुप्रीम कोर
He said that they had complained to the officials of the channels, but the officials refused to take action despite repeated requests from them. He said that they had complained to the Chief Minister of the state, the Governor and the Prime Minister, but none of them have taken any action. He said that they
He has not been able to move on because of this.
Hindi: Censorship, the police and the government are all on the side of the media. In 2012, a criminal case was filed against him and his friends for tweeting pictures of women on the beach.

Q: The
He is not a criminal.
Hindi: असामां के अधिकारों को इस बारे में दाखिल करना चाहिए उस
The Court also said that it will take a decision on whether the media should be restrained from reporting anything about the case. The media is free to report on the case, except for personal details of the victim and her family. The Court told the media that they can report on the case but only in
He said that he had been married for the past 15 years but had not even looked a women in his wife's direction for the past 15 years. He said that he was concerned about the country and had not allowed himself to be distracted by the women. He said that the CBI officials
Then Indra said: “O king! By taking birth as a woman this son has fallen within the hands of the three modes of material nature. This means that in the material world there is no possibility of freedom from the three modes of material nature. The three modes of material nature have their own
He said that the BJP had not lost its way. He said that the BJP was winning elections because it had a very good leadership. In the past, the BJP had won elections because of its leadership. He said that the BJP had managed to win the elections and it was not a miracle. He
After that he had lost his temper and had abused a lady reporter. He had given an apology to the lady reporter, but the BJP had not withdrawn its complaint. He had then been suspended for three years.
Hindi: तो, बदलना दिय
He said that he would never betray his country.
Hindi: बंसल का बयान कहा था कि वह एक बार फिर से सीबीआई स
If there is any doubt about his identity, he should be replaced with someone else.
Hindi: Agar usne witnesses jaise hi rup se bulaya to woh sirf aur sirf after kai complete investigation ke baad bulaya karega. Agar uske identity
He said that he had not got any money from anyone for delivering the letter.
Hindi: Bansal ne kaha ki, booth ke doosre booth me maine sirf ek letter ko dene ki koshish ki thee. Main ne kisi se koi paisa kahi
Hindi: Yahi krina hai to jis se acha kuch bhi nahi hoga. 

FunkyPoozies 2013-12-01: *Ye* crime hai to kuch bhi nahi hoga.

OP 2013
So, it is not the House's fault, but the fault of the central government.
Hindi: Usne kaha ki yeh Corporation ka constitutional right nahi hai, lekin usne hi opposition ko ye baat bol di. So, yeh House ka fault nahi hai,
In addition the government is committed to transparency and accountability. If the opposition feels that it is being kept in the dark about the developmental activities of the 15 years, then they should come forward with the details.
Hindi: Wo kaha ki agar aapke paas koi bhi pr
They are not used to the way in which people are coming and going, where organs are being transplanted and how the young people are being trained.
Hindi: Chandigarh mein koi in mahol ko samajh sakta hai, ki kaise yah tauran ka
Hindi: दोनों को मिले किसी भी कैबिनेट मैं स्वेग्स बदलने या बदलने
He said that there was a need to change the strategy in the state. He said that the meeting was to be held on the 8th of May to discuss the strategy. The next meeting will be held on the 10th of June.

2. Translate the following text from Hindi to English
Hindi: वे अपने भाषण का बारे में भी टिप्पणी कर रहे थे कि वह नहीं अप
He wanted to lead the party in every election. He wanted the party to win election with a humongous majority. He wanted to make a name for the party. He wanted the party to be at par with the national parties. He wanted to bring about a change in the society. He wanted
This year will be good for you. You will be respected by people. You will get name and fame. You will get very good results in education. Your health will be very good. You will complete all your work on time. You will get very good opportunities in your career. You will be
Hindi: सरकारी के प्रधानमंत्री के चेहरे पर विश्वासघाती अंडरस्ट्राइक था
The Chief Minister had turned a deaf ear to Singh’s appeals and ignored Singh’s recommendations to conduct a probe into the allegations. The protest was organised in the wake of the Chief Minister’s refusal to consider Singh’s recommendation to constitute a commission of enquiry into the allegations. The protest was also about the refusal
Hindi: Parantu, uska yeh vishwas tha ki agar kisi tarah se apne jhooth par zor dilaaye toh, usko ek saath apne sarkar se jhootha samman bhi milna pad saka.
14
However, the possibility of a change in the viewpoint of the party is very low. It can be said that there is no possibility of a change in the opinion of the party. The party is considering that there is a threat to the country and the country’s system from the activists.
Hindi:
The JDU chief also expressed happiness over the decision of the state government to grant 20-point category to the people of Pathardeva Kheri in the district and said that this would help the local people in getting benefits of various government schemes.
Hindi: रवीन
We will deliver the list to you in a couple of days.
Hindi: वह भी कहा कि लिस्ट कोई दिन तक तैयार हो जाएग
If there is anything wrong in the list, he will remove it and the list will be reissued.
Hindi: दोस्तों, अब नया खबर आ रही है कि व
Hindi: वह अपने दर्ज पर सरकारी विधायकों और सांसदों का अधिकार के सम्बन
Hindi: Agar zaroorat pad, thoda bada sara list badal sakte hain, badi bhartiya aur commit manjuri wale saal bad le sakte hain.
The translation is complete but the message of the text is not properly conveyed in Hindi
The Chief Electoral Officer acknowledged that there were some errors in the list. The list of electors is prepared by the Electoral Registration Officer of the concerned district. The list is prepared on the basis of data received from the National Population Register and the electoral rolls of the wards of municipalities and the municipalities. It
Therefore, we will take the issue up with the party President, former Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee. We would like to say that he is our leader and we will not do anything without his permission. We will meet him soon.
Hindi: Most of the people
English: एक गुलाबी चादर या एक गुलाबी चादर के अंदर लम्बे चौंके ले
He was an eminent businessman and founder of Reliance Industries. Reliance Industries is one of the best performing companies in India. He was born in a poor family in Chorwad in Gujarat. He worked hard to build his business empire with his vision.
Hindi: एक ऐ
He was the youngest among the three children that his parents had. He completed his schooling from the high school that was in the same village. This was followed by a graduation in commerce from the Rajkot Commerce College.
Hindi: खड़े २३
He was a graduate in commerce. When he was just 21 years old, he left his village and came to Bombay.
Hindi: दिक़ुभाई की दस्तावेज़ उनके पाँ
The five children were naughty and did not like to study.
Hindi : रमानी कला, नतवर लाल, धीरबाही एउटी व दो बह
He had no option but to work as a clerk in a trading company. He was very hard working and believed that the only way to achieve the goal was to work hard. He began with a capital of 15,000 rupees. On the basis of hard work and commitment, he grew his
He used to sell newspapers, buy them from the newspaper agents and sell them again. His maternal uncle, Champaklal, moved to Bombay in search of work. Dhirubhai followed him there at the age of 16. He found a job in a spice company as a sales representative
When the number of tourists started to decline, he sold the stall and started working as a laborer in a brick factory. He has also worked as a daily wage laborer at a stone quarry but currently he is working at a brick factory. He has a wife and four children; one daughter and
He worked as a petrol pump attendant at the Aden Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of Burmah Oil Company.
Hindi: दिहरुभई की पहली नौकरी 1949 में थी ज
[1] Hindi: (a) उसके पुराने भाई रणिकलाला उसकी सभी गतिविधियां संभाल
He used his years of experience in textiles to understand what Indians need, what they aspire for. He saw that the world was changing. And so he changed too. He began to think as an Indian and not as a Gujarati. He took on the world. He won. He went on to
He was an orphan, of course, and he was
treated terribly as a child because he was so small. In some ways that's good
because it taught him a lot about life. It taught him about the hardships and the
difficulties that people have to face.
Hindi
It was a Saturday, and the city was in the mood to celebrate the republic day. The city was full of people who were in a festive mood. The city was still emptier than usual, because it was the weekend. He was walking around the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus,
He is a very good and honest man. He is your all-rounder. He would arrange for everything from train and flight tickets to hotel reservations. He would also you give a guide to help you during your travel. He would take care of all your travel needs. He is very friendly and
He believed in moving forward. He believed in his dream. He believed in making his dream come true. He believed in his vision. He believed in his vision of a better future. He believed in his vision of a better future. He believed in his vision of a better future. He believed in
He was a member of the 1905 Revolutionary Committee.
Hindi: Was a member of the 1905 Revolutionary Committee.
Answer: उसका नाम देश और भी अधिक अपने आ
He had just
turned 70.
Hindi: िधिरुभई अमबानी ने ईस वर्ष 6 जुलाई को पिताजी दु
He had Rs 1,000 crores in cash. He had Rs 2,000 crores in cash. He had Rs 1,000 crores in cash. He had Rs 1,000 crores in cash. He had Rs 1,000 crores in cash.
He has 4 children including 3 sons and a daughter. He has a beautiful wife who is a Parsi. His daughter is married to a Hindu businessman. He has four children. His sons Mukesh Ambani and Anil Ambani are looking after his huge business empire.
Hindi:
On the 20th of January, 2018, they will be together celebrating their 45th birthday.
Hindi: अपने पिताजी की तरह आज इन दोनों भाई
The Ambanis are the richest family in India. They have a net worth of one hundred billion dollars. The Ambanis own a company called Reliance Industries. It is the largest company in India. The Ambanis are also known as the most conservative family in India.
Hindi:
The Ambani family is the richest in India, and among the wealthiest in the world. In 2008, their net worth was estimated at $30 billion (US dollars).
Hindi: डीढूबा, कोकिलबेन,
Time for you to do the same? Tell us!
Hindi: पेमेल एंडरसन ने अपनी परफेक्ट क्लॉक्स की ब्लॉ
But now, Pamela Anderson is showing off a new look. The actress has dyed her hair auburn, a shade of reddish-brown, and she has also cut it short.
Hindi: पम के लोकप्रिय टीवी
The Baywatch actress was spotted with short hair and a fringe while out shopping in Los Angeles. She has yet to comment on the transformation.
Hindi: पेमेल एंडरसन रोज़ अभी की ल
It is the latest in a string of dramatic hair transformations for the actress, who has previously sported an equally short bob and a brunette shoulder-length bob.
1. यह एक काले लंग्स को धो देने
The brunette beauty showed off her long legs in a pair of tiny denim shorts and a loose fitting top, which showed off her toned abs. She covered up with a pink cardigan and accessorised with a pair of black sunglasses and small gold hoop earrings. Posing up a storm in front of a
"I've had long hair for a long time, and it's kind of nice to have a change," the 24-year-old told E! News. "It's a lot of fun to have short hair. It's kind of edgy and chic and different, so I'm loving it
Hindi: tum kya sochti ho ki Pammy ka chehra kaisa hai?
How do you say the following sentence in Hindi?
English: I like my bike. Hindi:
English: I like her hair. Hindi:
English: I think she is beautiful. Hindi:
English:
What are your favorite moments from the past year?
Hindi: नीचे अपने सोच पूछे सो करें। आप के लिए पांच साल क
The event was organised by Sardar Charan Singh ji. Chairman of the Gurudwara Committee, Sardar Darshan Singh Ji, and the Head Granthi of the Gurudwara, Sardar Baldev Singh ji, were also present.
Hindi: श
They were greeted by the members of the society at the entrance of the park. After the inauguration of the programme the chairman and the secretary of the committee delivered the introductory speech. The first of the function was the speech delivery by the chief guest, the members of the society and the citizens requested him to
The committee also planted saplings at the site.
Hindi: यहाँ शहीद केसरी चंद का प्रतिमा करने के लिए शहादत म
The speakers were felicitated in the program.
Hindi: तब उसी बार एक सांस्कृतिक प्रदर्शन स्थान के अन्य प
The program was presented for 3 days.
Hindi: In this program Sukh Kala Manch Jaunsaar presented 'Kesari teri yaad mein kashi bhulauni, Jiyendei teri yaddon bira kashi mitauni', 'Veer
He said that all the people of the village were determined to prepare people to sacrifice their lives for the country. He said that Kesari Chand had shown courage to become a freedom fighter at a time when the country was in the grip of the British Raj. He said that Kesari Chand was considered to
(5 marks)
Hindi: वह लखनऊ के कभी स्वतंत्रता संग्राम की वह लखनऊ के कभी स्व
The Chairman of the Committee Jayvir Singh Chauhan appreciated the role of the members of the committee, said the committee has been formed to raise the issues of the members of the society, and they should all work likewise. He further said that the Committee has done a commendable job and has brought
The cost of a chemical used to kill them will go up by 15 per cent after the government imposed an environment cess on manufacturers of pesticides. The cess will be charged on all pesticides sold and imported in the country. The cess is expected to raise the cost of production, resulting in higher prices for
It is also considering a 30 per cent tax on mosquito netting.
Hindi: एसएसएस इस प्रदेश के नवजात अदालत ने मचे
The government has decided to increase the tax on petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders.
Hindi: Petrol aur diesel ke liye tax badhane ke liye government cabinet me pahuchane wali hain. Rajya Pariwash hain ki LPG ke liye tax
One of the ways to do this is to increase the price of petrol and diesel. The government's decision is to increase the prices of petrol and diesel every month. This decision of the government is being opposed by the common people.
Hindi: उनके चार च
This committee will review the financial position of the government on a monthly basis. The committee will be formed in the first week of every month and the committee will meet every month. This committee will review the financial position of the government on the basis of balance sheet and revenue account, prepare and submit a report
This is being considered as an effective decision by the Government.
Hindi: बारह अभियान के बारे में आधारित सूचना के अनुस
It has also recommended increasing the tax on cigarettes. However, a reduction in the tax on petrol and diesel is expected.
Hindi: परत के बड़े रहत नह न रहग ,की मचर
But the government has not given any details of it. The government’s plan is to increase the tax by 3%.
Hindi: एक नोटिस आयतनों को तीन बार बढ
This bill would only apply to the 4% VAT. The 1% tax is still on the table.
Hindi: Abhi unme 4% VAT aur adhik 1% tax ka charge hai. Ye bill sirf 4% VAT ke liye apply kare
This will bring the total tax rate to 14% on these items.
Hindi: Ab 12.5% VAT aur 1.5% taqriban tax ye sab items par lag jata hai. Iske bajaye total tax rate 14% ye sab items par lag
The government has imposed a surcharge of 10% on luxury cars and 15% on the super luxury cars in addition to the excise duty.
Hindi: यह सरकार इस तरह के आर्थिक व
The committee has advised to increase the tax by 4% to generate the revenue income. The committee has made this decision by considering so many factors and has recommended the government to increase the tax by 4%.
Hindi: चमगादर वाले क
As per the committee, the use of bidis should be stopped immediately.
Hindi: दर्जन आयोग की आदेश को दूसरी भाषा में समझ
The committee is of the view that there is no justification for the proposed tax hike.
Hindi: Yehi prakar hai ki sabhi ke liye, yehi samjhaya gaya ki kharedaneka matdan karanevala pahal kiska bhi
The committee believes that the green tax is not a sustainable alternative. The green tax is a temporary and discretionary form of taxation. The committee recommends that the Government should work towards the development of a sustainable alternative. This alternative is preferably based on the tax-deductible scheme to encourage environmentally-friendly vehicles.
H
in Palwal. The Congress leader stated that the farmers will not forget this loan waiver. He also requested the public to vote for the Congress in the upcoming assembly elections.
Hindi: श्रद्धवीर हुड़ा ने श
He talked about the deaths of his father, his sister and his son. He also talked about the role of the secret police in his brother’s death, the torture of his sister and the inability to get justice for his family.
Hindi: इस भाषण म
He was also a teacher and a great administrator. When he became the principal of the college in 1918, he found that its financial condition was very bad. The college was spending more money than it was earning. He took some important steps to improve the financial condition of the college. He cut
He said that the Chief Minister has spent more than one thousand crore rupees in the district in the last five years. Hooda was addressing a public meeting in Gohana on Friday. Mr. Hooda said that the state government has allocated 1,000 crore rupees for the construction of the
He has also given more than Rs 9 crore to the poor and Rs 26 crore to the farmers.
Hindi: बारवाह महाराज बुपीन्दर सिंह हुड़ा
The CM is saying is true that this rally will make a big impact on the politics of the country and it will have a positive effect on the people of the country. The people of Haryana are hopeful of seeing their CM raising their voice against the atrocities on women and children that are taking place in
He said that the BJP is trying to mislead the people by saying that the Congress is not working for the development of the state and the people. Chadvir said that the BJP is trying to mislead the people by saying that the Congress is not working for the development of the state and the
Dhanteras, which falls four days before Diwali, is known as the ‘festival of wealth’ as it symbolises the beginning of shopping for gold, silver, utensils and other precious items that are believed to bring prosperity in the year ahead. The festival is celebrated in almost
In the summer season, the demand for mangoes is the highest. In the last few days, those who are involved in the business of mangoes have been roaming in many areas. The supply of mangoes is also good. In the markets, mangoes are available at a price of Rs.
Additional security arrangements have been made. The traffic is being managed by bringing the market to a halt for four hours. The shopkeepers have been given 12 hours to clean up their shops.
Hindi: दस्तावेजों को बढ़
They have put up charts and made packages. They have made a list of things which should be on the menu of the guests. The menu is prepared according to the pocket of the guests.
Hindi: व्यापारक क्रमांक उनक
The traders in the markets have witnessed huge profits during the festive season. The festive season has been a boon for the traders.
Hindi: त्वरित इस्तती भारतीय नगरों में
Shiny and colorful lights, electric and fancy decorations are placed in the streets that attract customers. People buy many things in Diwali. The festival is celebrated all over the country.
Hindi: तंबाकू दिवाली के द
The markets of areas 3, 8, 11 and 12 have been decorated in a similar way. The entire length of the road from the railway station to the main bus stand is decorated.
Hindi: ग्रन चर्च के 4, 5
No sign of any kind of anxiety was seen. The traders are making every effort to ensure that their customers are not upset at any cost. People were seen buying Gold, Silver and other metals on the occasion of Dhanteras. Dhanteras is considered to be the day for the purchase
Sales of other items were also good, but somewhat below what they should have been.
Hindi: उपहार और कर्मठ सामग्री की पेड़ की बिक्री स्त
The police, who had installed barbed wire fencing at his residence, reportedly removed it after taking away the security guards. The guards at the house of the former Minister were removed on the instruction of the police. After removal of the security guards, the police installed barricades on the way leading to the
He has also said that he has been given the security of the Z+ category. Hindi: खान ने सरकार को बख़ाशी के लिए दुष्प्राशी
Mufti Sayeed was not in the cabinet.
Hindi: यह ज़रूर याद रखे कि 2002 में शोपियन पार्टी के ल
He was told in 2001 to leave the US, but he did not. He was arrested on 15 July 2002. He was held in detention for four years, with no access to a lawyer. He was taken to the High Court and was released on 11 June 200
I was told by a friend to be careful while talking to my friends. I was told to be cautious because my father is working for the security forces. I was told to not talk to my friends as they might tell the wrong people about me. I was told of people getting killed and I was
I have been provided with security in view of the law and order situation in the area. I have had a good experience with such security. I am quite sure that it will continue to be the same now and in future. The CRPF security personnel are very professional and I am quite sure that they
I will go to the court to protect myself. I will go to the police station to protect myself. I will go to the court to protect myself. No one can touch me. I am not afraid of the police, but I am afraid of the people who are doing this.
Hindi:
They both assured me that they would take necessary action.
Hindi: Jab mere ghar se abhi tak security team bhag raha tha toh main unse baat karke District Deputy Commissioner aur District Superintendent se mila. Unhone mujhe assure kiya ki unhone apne
I think the way that this matter was handled was not correct, and I suggest that they investigate it again.
Answer: यही परीक्षा था जो आपने अपने सामान्य को
He said that the three people who were killed had been arrested in 2009 for stone pelting and that they were sentenced to three months in jail, which was later extended. He said that the three people had been killed in an accidental exchange of fire between the police and paramilitary forces. He
It is the responsibility of the government of India. I have a lot of respect for the CBI. I am not going to comment on their working. I have a lot of respect for the CBI and its director, Alok Verma.
Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
H
He said the Congress government  in Himachal Pradesh was, however, trying to disrupt peace and harmony in the  State. He said the Congress government had always opposed the visit of  His Holiness the Dalai Lama to India.
Hindi: राष्ट्री
After all, he is the prime minister of the country. In the next few days, the government should make a statement on this matter. This security issue should not be played with. The country's prime minister, who is the prime minister of the country, who is the prime minister of the country
I am coming to Srinagar on the 9th and will be staying at the hotel. I am alone so please send a car to pick me up from the hotel.
Hindi: मैं अब जम्मू में हू
Hindi: मुझे इस शोर्ट की समस्या का विवाद के लिए अधिकारी के साथ विचार कर
The government is planning to spend an additional Rs 2.25 crore to mark the completion of 150 years of the birth of Mahatma Gandhi.
Hindi: अ according to the report, the UPA government has spent Rs 8.5 crore to advertise the anniversary of the birth
Of course, a lot has changed in the recent years, but this is an example of the total neglect of Patel's memory by the Government and BJP.
Hindi: Par, Modi ji ke NDA sarkar ke badale ke claims ke according, Atal Bihari Vajpay
But the Indian government is the first government which bought the rights for the 70th anniversary. So this is a matter of pride for us. We are going to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the death of Sardar Patel with grandeur. The statue of Sardar Patel is being
This was the same year in which the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had made a statement in the Lok Sabha in which he said that the government had spent Rs 1, 400 crore on advertisements. The then Prime Minister had said that the government had spent Rs 1, 400 crore
The UPA government has been in power for five years and they have done nothing for development. They have suppressed the media. The UPA government is a government of scams. The UPA government has proved itself to be a government of lies.
Hindi: उपाध्यक
The total number of ads that the UPA published in 2008 was 24,000. Now, compare this with the number of ads published by the NDA from 1999 to 2008. The total number of ads that the NDA published in that period was 22,
Hindi: तिवारी ने कहा था कि वह वर्ष में अर्थव्यवस्था अभयक्ष था.
The amount spent on the birth and death anniversaries of Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi is in crores and crores of rupees.
Hindi: Sardar Patel ko bhagidari ke dauran bahot kam amount spend kiya gaya hai. I
In 2011-12, DAVP spent Rs. 34.7 crores on the birth and death anniversaries of these leaders, 25 crores for Rajiv Gandhi, 29 crores for Indira Gandhi and Rs. 25.7 crores for Jawah
It should be looked through the lens of the country's growth and security. The government has increased the advertising budget to Rs 1,000 crore as part of its modernization plans. It is not for the first time that this kind of expenditure has been made for the security and growth of the country
The newspaper, radio, television and Internet have different costs. Television advertising is the most expensive. The price of advertising depends on the number of people who will see the ads. The number of people who use the Internet is increasing every day. The Internet is the cheapest way to advertise. The newspaper has
I have been a journalist for 20 years, this is not a matter of concern for me. I am a common person. I have never been a politician. I am a sportsman who has left his sport. Now I am a full-time journalist. I am doing this for humanity.
H
Hindi: उन्होंने कल पटना में बरसे हुए लोगों के परिवारों को मिलने का निर
There are rumours that the blasts are a part of the conspiracy to defame the Prime Minister.
Hindi: कोई उदाहरण है तो उसके आने पर सुरक्षा
No stone has been left unturned to ensure that the visit is not disturbed in any way. The police have already sent a list of all the places to be visited and the events to take place there to the concerned officers and officials to alert them to be on their toes and prepare adequately. The police
They will be arrested if they try to create any disturbance.
Hindi:
Police बाल करेगा जो समाज में आने वाले लोगो को विधि पर
You can trust us.
Hindi: Gujarat police ke, NSG IB ke and State police ke hisab se, aapko aapka samana karne ka haq hai. Aap apni aankh ki taraf dekh sakte hain.
4. Translate the following
The Modi government will be able to provide complete security to the country's borders.
Hindi: यदि एक इंग्लिश शब्द मे लिखा जाए तो यह
Some people have alleged that the urn procession ends in a temple in Gaya and the ashes are offered in the Ganga. The BJP has denied all such allegations. The urn procession has been halted and the ashes have been kept at the party office, they have said.
Hindi: हाल
He said the people who are fighting for their rights should be supported.
Hindi: Nitish ji के अनुसार BJP ने निकलने का वातावरण बदला ड
and supplies, the doctors and nurses of Project HOPE’s 2002 Medical Mission to India have treated more than 10,000 patients, vaccinated more than 3,500 children and delivered more than 110 babies since arriving on July 15. The mission is supported by the Rotary Club of
, Africa.
Hindi: डॉ. जॉर्ज ब वेल ने कैमरयुना, अफ़्रीका में ग्रीट आ
in remote villages not far from the capital, Yaoundé. Bwelle, from the Central African Republic, is the founder of the Cameroon Association for the Blind, which is based in Yaoundé. He has been bringing eye care services to these people for nearly 30 years. “Our
. Yet in India, there's one doctor for every 1,600 people. With a population of 1.2 billion, that's a lot of doctors.
Hindi: वैसे तो वे एकविंशों
at
www.voteonit.com/shailaja.
Hindi: Vote karne ke liye yahan click karein ya mohole pe.
www.voteonit.com/shailaja.
c. You can translate the above text in the following ways:
i. “Cast your vote
Please vote for him at http://edition.cnn.com/CNNHeroes/vote/
Hindi: डॉ. जर्जस वेबेल ने विश्व के टॉप 10 एनसी
Just go to CNN.com and vote for your favorite. You can also show support for your Hero by wearing his or her branded T-shirt, available online for just $10. And if you really love your Hero, you can also post a message of support on a CNN-branded virtual billboard for only
Hindi: वह पर्सन ने अगर उनका अपना अन्तराष्ट्रीय काम बढाना है तो व
In the end, he couldn't save his father. But Bwelle is now a doctor, part of an army of young people who are providing primary healthcare in their home countries. He is one of more than 90,000 doctors who have graduated from the 11 medical schools in Cameroon in
Afterward, he was not able to walk or use his right arm. “I had to learn how to walk again. I was in pain for a long time,” he said.
Bwelle is a plastic surgery patient at the University of California, Los Angeles, who received a new artificial arm
Hindi:
English: Such a procedure is not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration but is used in Europe and Canada. Hindi:
English: Thus, the medicine is generally prescribed for a duration of at least 35 days, and sometimes for as long as 6 months. Hindi:
"Everyone had to go to Europe or the United States to get treatment for brain tumors. I was very lucky because, after studying in Argentina, I returned to Cameroon and was able to perform my first surgery in 2001." The surgery was not without risks. "We are not used to doing
English: I wish I had been born in a rich family. English: I wish my father had been a doctor. English: She's in love with him, I wish she weren't. English: I wish I hadn't spoken to him. English: I wish I could have seen her.
He also learned how to make traditional medicine and how to mix it with western medicine. In 1997 the first hospital in his region opened, and Bwelle was hired as a nurse.
Hindi:
अर्थ: कोई भी आए स
"I don't like it, but when I speak about the
condition of my family, the government gives me some money." Bwelle
said he doesn't have enough money to pay for his children's school fees or
even for food on a regular basis. "I don't like
You can work all day without a break, and when you are leaving, you are not the last. You can work in the city, and the closest weekend, you can spend on the mountain, and this is not a problem. Because I have you, and you have me. And nothing can
I have to admit them to the hospital.
Hindi: Main sabhi patien ko apne sansthan me admit karna chahta hu.
5. Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: We have a lot of work to do.
Hindi: Humare paas
They wait for a loved one to die, they wait for the day they will get their own house, they wait for the time they will be rich, they wait for the day they will get married, they wait for the day they will be happy, they wait for the day their money will come
His mother and two brothers are in a better situation than him, living in the village with a few chickens, goats, and cows. Bwelle, on the other hand, decided to quit his job in the village and try his luck in Douala to help his family and try to make a
In the face of this shortage, the country’s fledgling biomedical engineering program is hoping to help train the next generation of doctors and engineers to work on the front lines of healthcare delivery in the developing world.
Hindi: कमरून एक मेडिकल
[Source: World Health Report 2006: Working Together for Health]
Hindi: पर यथार्थ, परिवार को द्वारा उक्त वाक्य को अं
The average Cameroonian earns less than $1 a day, and the African nation is ranked as the world's 175th poorest country.
Indian: और यदि वे एक चिकित्सक से देख
About 25% of India's population receives some kind of social security from the government. The main programs include employment guarantees, food subsidies, and health insurance.
Hindi: देश में दो पथनों के लिए द
"If we leave them, they will be left to die. That is why I am here to help them."
Hindi: "Yeh unke liye problem toh nahi hai, "Bwelle ne bola. "Agar hum unhe chodenge toh unke
They cannot get a proper job. They cannot have proper social status. Hindi: Aur poornata aur unka zindagi unhein enjoy nahi karne mein nahi milta, unhein achi kaam milne mein nahi milta, aur unko achchi
Here’s what he started. “The U.S. government had been paying to bring doctors from other countries who have been trained to practice medicine in their own countries. Now, instead of paying to bring them here, we pay them to stay in their own countries.” Bwelle’s organization, Afr
His organization is called "Seeds of Hope", and it works in the Republic of Cameroon in Africa.
Hindi: डॉ. जर्जेस ब्वेल और उनकी टीम की सहय
A passionate researcher and inventor, he has to date produced in his laboratory over 20 inventions, most of which were officially patented in 2008.
Hindi: उन्होंने अपने लिए चिकित्सक
His family is now in the process of building a 60-bed hospital in the village.

Hindi: और वह अपने नए योगदानी, ASCOVIME, को ग्रामी
He has also donated medical supplies to hospitals in order to help those in need. In addition, he established the Sanjivani Charitable Trust, which focuses on providing quality medical education to students and also runs a free clinic for the underprivileged.
Hindi: 2008 से इ
They treat the sick and provide medical advice and education. Many of the people come from remote, hard-to-reach areas.
Hindi: जो वह हर भारतीय ने पहले रौशन क
They had to shift their factory to the outskirts of the town. They have to pay Rs.10,000 per month for the rent of the factory building. The cost of the new factory building is Rs.3,00,000. This factory won't be able to make much profit for them
Hindi: वे बहुत करने के बाद भी उठाए चाहे जहां वहां रेल्वे और भूमि
In the evening, there is a special ceremony where the visitors are presented with a traditional gift, such as a blanket or shawl, and given the chance to speak. The visitors often speak about their experiences, which often include some sort of revelation; many of them become born-again Christians. The
As the crowd gathers to watch and cheer, Bwelle stands on a box and begins to sing. "Thank you for coming to the clinic," he calls out, collecting the donations. "I am grateful for your generosity." Soon, the crowd is swaying in time to the music. B
One patient with severe burns, who has been unable to move for years, begins to walk. Another man, who has been blind for 18 years, can now see. And the doctors are astounded to discover that the paralyzed man who could not walk is now able to run.
Hindi:
"They are from Cameroon, Nigeria, Chad, Mali, Senegal, Niger, Benin, Togo, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Guinea and Sierra Leone."
Hindi: "Hum 500 logo ko apni jagah per dikhate hai," B
They will go to the Gashka.
Hindi: Aap log 60 kilometer ki uthan se aayenge, aur aapko chalna hoga. Aap Gashka ke pass jayenge.
1.2.3.4.11.2
The clinics are staffed by an American doctor and several local medical assistants
Hindi: हर एक यह ज़माने के दो दिनों में उपचार और म
There are specialists who are qualified to provide care and treatment. There are also many others who are not trained to provide these services. In many countries there are hospitals in which the staff are trained and qualified to provide medicines and other treatments. In countries where there are no hospitals or trained health workers there is
But in this remote part of the Andes, where some villages are so remote that children walk more than 40 miles to get to school, a pair of shoes is the sole means of receiving help from the charity.
Hindi: कृपया अधिक
These will treat fistula and other problems, but will be limited to what the team can do with the supplies available in the area. We will also be teaching local nurses the process of obstetric fistula repair. This will provide a sustainable way to treat the problem in that area. We will also
As a result, many people can be operated on in a short period of time. The cost of such an operation is about 150 euros.
Hindi: अधिक तरह चेन्नई जिले के प्रम
Their hands are so slick with sweat that they have to wipe them on their pants before they can grab the tray of syringes. They work quickly, but carefully. People are dying, and they know it.
Hindi: अपने ग्रुप की ज
They play the percussion instruments and encourage the runners with songs consisting of rhythmic phrases and chants. Hindi: यह देशी गीत गोत्री भी तोड़ देती है पर
"We are not going to sleep today. We are going to continue our work until the day ends".
Time duration: 1 hour
- Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: "From the first results of the new survey, the ruling party has received a 36% support
With the successful completion of the monsoon season, the team now looks forward to the next season.
Hindi: बुधवार को पहली देरी के बाद, टीम शाम को
But it’s also made a huge difference to them, as they’ve gained a fresh appreciation for the challenges faced by the people they’re trying to help. As one student told the Washington Post, “It has changed my vision of medicine completely." Hindi: यह ग्रुप -
“I am so happy. I have no words to express my feelings,” he said. “I cannot thank the doctors enough for giving me a new lease of life. I came to the hospital because I was suffering from severe pain. Though I had taken treatment from a local doctor, the pain did
"I am so happy. I am so happy. I am so happy."
Hindi: "Mai apne ghar ke liye meri future badal sakta hoon. Mera dil soch raha hai ki mai kaise aur kaise ghar le sakta h
He says he earns almost as much working at these clinics as he does working at the hospital.
Hindi: इसके अलावा इस घर वे वेकेंड एंड नॉर
He says he doesn't want to leave the city, that he wants to do good work, that he's doing it for the children. But the children don't come to the office, and they never will. He has an office, but it's a few blocks from the school, and he
"I've never seen him sleep." Hindi: Mai kuch bhi nahi samajhta hu. (Gujarati: Ne tene chhe yaad na aape.)
Answer: Gyan (ज्ञान)
Language: 7. Translate the following text
Hindi: वह केवल एक अस्पताल में हैं या इस संगठन के लिए पैसे कमाने के ल
"It's an amazing experience to see the care and compassion he has for the people here," says O'Malley, who is on her fourth mission. "The work that is done here is so inspiring. It's a really great experience for nursing students to see how far you can stretch your skills
"It's really been a great learning experience for both of us."
Hindi: "Humne kahin surgery karwayi hai jahan ham blood ko tabah karne mein help karte hain ya tool ko hold karne mein Dr. Bwelle ke sath," O
It's just not allowed. And that is
part of what makes this place so special.
Hindi: Yeh America mein second year medical student ke liye asani se kar paayenge. Ye nahi hota yeh. Yeh hi yeh
geyukt hota
On arrival, the volunteers are usually given a tour of the clinic, and introduced to the staff, and local medical personnel. Sometimes the clinic is very busy, and the volunteers are asked to leave the clinic and wait in a waiting room or outside. The volunteers are then called when help is needed.
Bwelle is a local non-profit organization that has been successful in placing thousands of international students over the last two decades. It provides students with a safe environment to learn French and Cameroon culture, as well as a welcoming home.
Hindi: अभी वह शह
"He went to war, and he fought for us." Hindi: वह तथागत है उसका विशेष रूप से इस रूप में उसक
His desire to help the Cameroon people is everlasting.
Hindi: उसने ज़िन्दगी इस विभाग के साथ दे रहा है और उसक
It's a privilege.
Hindi: बुवेले के लिए नेर दरअसल काम काफी मोहब्बत होता है। यह
You May Not Know: He's a trained classical dancer. He can read and write Hindi as well. He learnt to draw when he was just 5 years old. He has a son named Sidharth.

Hindi: मुझे उसकी पापा
"I am proud to do things for my children."
Hindi: "Mujhe is kam se kitna khush hoon, Bwelle bola. Mera bachcha k liye kuch bhi kar sakta hoon, mene bol diya."
For the above
He was a teacher. He was a teacher in his village, and he loved the children. And he wanted so much to educate all the children. And I know he would have been so happy to see me here. And, I know he would have been so proud to see me standing here today
It would be good for the country if he did.
Hindi: Maine chaaha ki wah dekh le. Agar use yeh samajh le to desh ke liye bahut achchha hoga.
Directions (Q. 82-85): In the following questions,
I will work hard to reach my goal.
Hindi: इसलए मैं इस करने को लग गया कि लोगों को चढ़ावा द
There are many things you can do to help. You can read about them here. http://www.ascovime.org/ascovime_help.html Hindi: देखिए एसकॉवीमे वेबसाइट औ
I have found a diamond. I have found a diamond.
Hindi: तुम नह भल जाने लग ग, यह सच है। मैंने एक ड
In this way, the name of the road itself, became a symbol of the city, representing a person who was not born in the city, but who played a vital role in the city's development.
Hindi: यहाँ तो लगभग
They also demanded that the state government should provide funds for the road construction work. The youth said that the roads should be constructed by the government and not by the contractor.
Hindi: वहीं पूरे देश में गाँव
At the end of the program, Sachchidanand Pandey, along with the MLA, said that the farmers of the district are suffering from the drought of the last 15 years. The government is not able to provide them with proper irrigation facilities. The government should also provide compensation for the farmers
Hindi: Modi ne kaha, "Agar aap sabhi Congress party ke kisi bhi leader ke kahane sunenge to aapko pata chal jayega ke unka kya kaam kiya hai." 2 Translate the following text from English to Hindi
Hindi: "Congress ke bahar chalan ho gaya hai, kyunki media ka sawaal jawab nahi deta hai."
4. Write a summary of the given passage and translate it into Hindi:
Passage: On 7 July 2019, the Supreme Court of India
Why these double standards? How can they keep on asking questions? They should now stop and allow the government to work. What is the reason that they are asking questions?
Hindi: मनमोहन सिंह श्रम मंत्री है
Do not be afraid of the public.
Hindi: Vleekon ko jawaab dijiye. Vleekon ke shikayat maan kar nahi chodte.
Question 7: Translate the following text from English to Hindi:
English: The youth or students
But, Modi chose a different approach in Surat, where he held a roadshow and is still meeting the media. Sibal’s comment is meant to silence the media and to silence critics. I will continue to criticise Modi’s policies.
Hindi: अबला कर
He said that people of the country want to know the truth.
Hindi: सिबल ने मोदी पर आसान वाद करने की धमा डाल दिया ह
Hindi: मोदी ने कहा, "भाजपा कांग्रेस सरकार बनाने के लिए देश की जनता के स
Hindi: कांग्रेस अपने पुराने वरिष्ठ नेता को सभी चुनाव में टिकट देता ह
How many total numbers of players?
Hindi: शब्दाचे संदर्भ लिखावे:
English: In the list there are 8 old and 4 new faces. How many total numbers of players?
Hindi:
Also, a Bhopal-based doctor-turned-politician Prabhuram Choudhary, who is a former Mayor of the city, is among the new entrants in the party.
Hindi: नयोर निर्मित सिं
They are also cabinet ministers. These five have been given a ticket even though they lost the 2013 assembly elections.
Hindi: सगर से ३, तिकमगढ से २ व चटपट
This year, the BJP has fielded elite candidates, unlike in the previous elections.
Hindi: अगर कोई बढ़तो हो तो वही बच्चा होता है
These tickets will allow the winners to come to Canada as permanent residents.
Hindi: Yadavendra Singh Tikamgarh से रहते हैं और ब्रुजेन्द्र Singh Prithvipur में र
In 1989, the CPI, the SP and the BSP had won these seats. However, in 1991, the BSP won all the 13 seats. In the 1996 election, the BSP won 14 seats, the SP won 8 seats and the BJP won 1
The leaders of the BJP and Congress have announced their candidates from Bina. The Congress has announced Giriraj Singh Munda as its candidate from Bina. The BJP has also announced its candidate from Bina. The contest will be between the candidate of Congress and BJP.
Hindi: ब
Both have been contesting from this seat since 2008. In 2008, Mahesh Rai had won from this seat by defeating Nirmala Sapre.
Hindi: बिना में भाजपा का महेश र
. In Panna, Lok Sabha member, Kirti Azad, is running against the late former minister's son, Manish Singh. In Chhatarpur, former minister's son, Sanjay Pathak, is running against the late former minister's son, Shailendra Pathak
The BJP's MLA candidate is a man of princely lineage. He had been to the United States and had worked in the United States in the past.
Hindi: यहां पर विक्रमसिंह के पुरुषक
In the last ten years the BJP has some times won, some times lost. The BJP will try to win this time.
Hindi: अरुंदय चौबे य की खौई और भु
This is the first time that the BJP is fielding a candidate against an incumbent MLA. Rajput has been the MLA from Surakhi for three terms, and is the son of a retired IAS officer.
Hindi: Govind Rajput, MLA Surakhi के न
The elections will be held in March and April. There are 126 seats, of which the BJP and Congress have won 68 each. The remaining eight seats are going to be very close.
Hindi: उन्होंने उन्‍हों
Along with this, the election committee has also appointed K.K. Shrivastava, the Director of State Vice-President Raipur North Seat, as his Assistant.
Hindi: रामदेव शर्माला ने राम
She must also take care of the monthly meetings and handle the correspondence.

Hindi: उपासने को स्तारण विभाग और अगर आवश्यकता हो
The entire management of the party is in his hands.
Hindi: Ramsevak Paikara aur Shivratan Sharma se sate president aur secretaryon ke saath bahut padarthi hain, abhi Rampratap secretary ke saath hi samanarthak hain
The duty of the Upasana is to work for the propagation of the vedas, the shastras and all that is holy. The Upasana must be the supporter of the religion, and must always be vigilant lest there is a decline in the religion. The Upasana must do everything
During the election, Sunil Soni will be the election director of the Raipur South Seat. The general public is requested that any type of violence or illegal activity at the election should be reported to the police quickly after the election. The general public is also requested to report any type of violence and
He is a former Congress worker and was active in the BJP-ruled Nagar Nigam during the last 10 years. He is a former district president of UP BJP and also worked as general secretary of the national BJP. He is also a member of the BJP’s national executive committee. He
He will be making a powerful speech to the people of Maharashtra with the Prime Minister and the leadership team of the party. He will be asking for the blessings of the senior leaders of the party for the Maharashtra Assembly election. He will also be praising the work of the party government in Maharashtra including the Chief
Soni is the most active contestant, if he is elected as the chairperson of this committee, then the job will be easier. I will take the responsibility of the chairperson but the aspirant candidate will have to take care of the major responsibilities. I have to announce the name of the chair
The election will be held on 26th November. The 56-year-old Pyarelal Uikey will be contesting from the Thakur seat and ManjuIshwari Phule will contest from the Bhandara-Gondiya seat.
Hindi: श्य
The programme was inaugurated by Dignitaries. The main attraction was the Cultural Programme. The programme was a big success.
Hindi: Ek saal ki hui shuruaat mein Nivasi Samaj ke samanvay se ek aisa khelatastik k
His songs were more than a treat to the ears.
Hindi: इन द व ल क प रग र म य ग र हन क न ब र द क भ तर ट ल क
The Diwali program was organised in the premises of Bar Association, District Court Complex, Sirsa. Advocate Pradeep Saini Jidge, Bar Association President, has been organising programs for the lawyers for Diwali for the last 15 years. The program was organised by Prade
The Judge was speaking at the inauguration function of the 15th annual Rajput Sammelan and Sindhi Association’s annual festival at the Nurpur Kothi here today. He said that the unity of the country was the need of the hour. He also appealed to the people to save water
He said that this time the bar association is also eagerly waiting for  Diwali and Navratri.  They are also going to celebrate Diwali with full enthusiasm because last year due to the corona virus, Diwali was celebrated with great enthusiasm.
Hindi: ब
The event was a huge success and was covered by several news channels.
Hindi: इस घटन क पांच हज़ार शक्तिया भक्त ज़रूरत
Hanuman has been worshipped in India since many centuries. Hanuman is the servant of the god Ram, is very famous in India and Nepal. The worship of Hanuman is very prevalent in India. India is a country of different religions and cultures. In India, people get together in festivals,
He further said that 108 Divya Desam (sacred places of Lord Vishnu) would be visited at all the places and a yagna will be performed. He said that people started coming at the venue from 7 am and the yagna was performed at 8 am. He
The procession began at 12:15 and ended at 12:30. The ceremony was printed on the 21st of July and ended on the 21st of July. The march began at 11 am and ended at 11:15 am. The ceremony was held on the
He further added that the Muslim and Hindu citizens, in the midst of their differences, exchanged sweets and friendship by eating together.
Hindi: Kuchh iss tarah ka kahane ko mera manane ke liye vishwaas dilata hai ki, jab prarthana ki
Hindi: अमेरिका के प्रधानमंत्री ओबामा का आवंटन एक्सीडेंट
This is a basic exercise
Now, he says, that will only be true if insurers "make it available." But the verbiage doesn't change the fact that many Americans don't have much choice of health plans.
Hindi: बीते के सात दिनों के
“It’s within the president’s power to offer relief to millions of Americans who are losing their coverage,” says Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the Senate’s No. 2 Republican. “If he did so, he could end the debate over his broken promises once and for all.” As part
He said: “If you're a family who earns less than $250,000 a year, my plan will mean your taxes will never go up.” Hindi: विशेषकर अपने प्रिन्सिपल ने कह
He added that if people liked their current health care plan or doctors, they could keep them.
Hindi: “For the vast majority of people who have health insurance that works, you can keep it," he said in a speech in Boston. He added that if people liked their current health care plan
"If you lose your coverage, you can still get covered under the same rules as before the Affordable Care Act, and you won't have to pay the tax penalty that goes along with being uninsured," he said. "And if you're one of the more than 85 percent of Americans who already
It’s over a hundred million people that don’t have health care. That’s not just a few people. We’re talking about a lot of people.
Hindi: Hum sab ko raat ko ghar chodke bathroom jana padta hai. Toilet jyada achchi hai.
"No matter what happens, you're going to get a better deal." - Donald Trump.
Hindi: "Tumhe zaroorat se zyada achchha deal milega." Woh bola. "Koi bhi ho, tumhe zaroorat se zyada
What is surprising is the indifference the administration has shown to the 40 million people currently enrolled in plans that don't meet the minimum requirements. It's almost as if the administration doesn't care about the millions with no health insurance beyond the mandate to get it.
Hindi (India): र
"You deserve a health care system that is more responsive to the needs of you and your families." She added: "I am sorry for the frustration and difficulty this has caused." Hindi: "मुझे सूचना करना चाह
"The website is the front door to the health insurance marketplace, and it's not working right now," she said.
Hindi: Sebelius, jo apne Affordable Care Act implement karna chata hai, kahane lagi ki website launch (launch) ke liye kuch k
"The thing is, it's not just me and my family. There are millions of people in the same situation. Today I can't go on a plane to the US, I can't go to a concert, I can't buy a car, I can't go to university, I can
I have been working hard to regain your trust and I am optimistic that I will succeed in the near future.
Hindi: मुझे आपके विवेक वार आपके विवेक पर ल
(CNN)
Hindi: कभी तो आप तो सोच कर भी आपको रोज इस प्लेटफॉर्म की सिफार
Sebelius, who was appointed by President Obama to run the Department of Health and Human Services, said she has been covered through her job since 1998 and had no intention of changing plans.
Hindi: भारत में बहुत से ल
The trader had lodged a complaint with the police. The police is investigating the matter. Hindi: यह अध्यक्ष पर अत्याचार की घटना की जानकारी
Hindi: अगर बिना निवेदन किया जाये तो उसे वापस लेने के लिए अपराधिक
A young boy, hailing from the NIT campus was found dead in the Sahakar Nagar area on the morning of 18th September 2021. The victim was a third year student of Information Technology and Electronics Engineering. According to the police, the incident occurred in the evening of
He was going towards the local railway station from his shop in his car. He suddenly noticed that a boy aged about 10 years was running towards the railway station. He thought that the boy might run to catch the train. But he was astonished to see that the boy was climbing on the railway track
He became worried and went to a nearby Police Station to lodge a complaint. The next day, he went to a District Police Station to lodge the complaint. The next day, he received a call from a person who identified himself as an officer of the CID and asked him to go to the Srik
The money was dropped in front of the house at 3 am. But the family members were sleeping and didn’t notice the money lying there.
Hindi: Aapka A/C me aaj 555 rupees aa chuka h. Aapke kai cheezo ka rate ut
Hindi: Vah Narendra ko sabit hua ki agar unhen paise nahin diye jayen to unhen mara ya unhen ki beti ka bhi koi le jaega.
8. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
Hindi: Vah Modi
Narendra was threatened that his family will be killed if he did not stop the protests. He was also threatened that his daughter will be forced to marry the two policemen who had threatened her with rape.
Hindi: रामनेराज ने पहले त
They are afraid of being caught. The boss says, “Don’t neglect your work. You will be punished for it.” A man is watching the roof. He is looking for a way to escape.
Hindi: परिवार के लोग डर
The police traced its location and arrested the accused.
Hindi: 8 अगस्त को दिनांक को गुमनाम किया गया था, पुलिस की
We have a clue now.
Hindi: अभी गिरफ्तारों के नाम के तथ्य की अधिकारी नहीं है
The victim has been counselled and her family members and the police have been apprised of the situation. The social media team has been informed and are monitoring the situation. The investigation has been handed over to the cyber crime cell for further investigation.
Hindi: यह वाप
He also said that the people whose houses were damaged in the floods have been given compensation. The MLA said that the people of the area have also been facing problems due to the lack of proper roads. He said that he would make efforts in this regard. MLA Bandal said that the construction of roads
Has he released the funds for rural development?
Hindi: संसदीय नेता भी ग्राउंड्स देता हैं जुलूसी विक
Hindi: वह पंचायत ने ग्रांट के लिए ग्राहक का उसे ग्राहक के लिए राज्य व
Hindi:
Kahaani: 15 bachey nay tayariy ki shart par pehli baar ghar par pahan kar pehna aur us k bad baghair kisi shart par apni kameez banai aur us ko apne ghar
The census of 1961 showed that there were 7,808 inhabitants of the village of Jjal. In 1961 the number of inhabitants of this village was 13,823. The number of inhabitants of this village increased by 6,015 in 8 years. There is no
He said that the Centre has not kept the promises made to the farmers of the State. He also said that the Centre should keep its promise of giving the farmers the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. But the Centre has not even fulfilled its promise of giving the MSP to the farmers
Hindi: उनसे दुनिया के साथ उन्हें श्री बंगाल के डीसी पीके यादव, एस.प
Due to which the number of cases of violations of the code of conduct are declining.
Hindi: उधार पिछले साल के गठबंधन को कार्यकारी सं
The cases are being reviewed by the Election Commission of India.
Hindi:
Gandhi Jayanti: National Call for a Gandhian Revolution: By Atul Anjan
On the occasion of 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the Council for Social Development, Delhi organized an
2019, and three FIRs were registered, 101 cases were registered in November 2019, and 110 FIRs were registered. And 52 cases were registered between December 22nd and December 27th, 2019, and 66 FIRs were registered.
Mean
Hindi: चुनाव कोड के अनुसार ही चुनाव निष्पक्ष से निकली जाने वाली य
The most frequent complaints are related to the quality of the train staff, and the cleanliness of the places where the train stops. The passengers also complain about the lack of an adequate response from the staff on these problems. Many people have complained that the staff is rude and doesn’t care about the passengers.
The Election Commission of India (ECI) has started a number of steps to ensure that this does not happen.
Hindi: It is being said that, since no-one had complete information about the code of conduct, the number of complaints against the political parties was increasing. The Election Commission of India
The commission has also asked the parties to ensure that they don’t use any such person for campaigning who is a criminal or has been convicted by the court.
Hindi: चुनाव आयोग ने चलाने वाल
The government has taken action and the result is that the people are now safe. The government has been doing a lot for the youth, and the party's youth wing is working wonderfully. The party has a lot of respect for the people of the state. The government has said that it will give a
The election commission of India has prepared the 'Know Your Candidate', in which the linked parties have also been given the opportunity to demand details of the candidates. In addition, the Election Commission has also given the voters the opportunity to know the status of their voter card. The Election Commission has also sent a
The Bureau also took the matter of “Chain Cigarettes” very seriously and stopped the manufacture of such cigarettes.
Hindi: इससे कोई नही बढ़ हुआ कि इसके द्व
The government has already given fund for the construction of the same. And the project is going to be started soon.
Hindi: यह काम एडअ के अनुसार गवर्नमेंट क
Although, there are many plots available,
but those are not free hold. All of them are leasehold. And, the leasehold plots are not available at a price, which is in reach of a middle class buyer.
Hindi: यह इतिहासक
The proposed city will have a population of 8 lakh. This mega project will be undertaken by the New Raebareli Development Authority. Raebareli is just 100 kilometers away from Lucknow.
Hindi: Ab toh unhone logon ne kaha ki residential projects ko j
The plan was divided into three parts. In the first part the problems were discussed. In the second part the solution was discussed. In the last part the plan was discussed. In the first part the problems were discussed. The problems were as follows. In the second part the solution was discussed. The
We are going to present a few proposals on how to use the water from the river, so that the water can be used for in-house uses like drinking, bathing, irrigating, washing clothes, and doing laundry.
Hindi: ADA ne panchon gaonon ko shamil karne
The remaining two blocks will be completed by the end of the month. The plan and design of the road from the ADA to the hospital is also complete. 
Hindi: ADA में जोरा विधान के अंदर श
The block will be divided into two parts. One will be under the ADA and the other part will be under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Committee. These two will be brought within the boundary of the Municipal Committee and the ADA. Within the boundary, the land will be divided into two parts. One part
He said that the government has taken the decision to open the temple to the public after careful consideration of the proposal.
Hindi: According to Amarnath Upadhyaya, secretary of ADA, a proposal concerning this matter has been sent to the government. He said that the government has taken the
There are 220 grampanchayants in the district, of which 150 are in the unauthorised colonies. In these colonies, there are 25 lakh people, mostly from the Dalit community. The area of these 150 grampanchayants is 10,000 hectares
Hindi: Agar uske baad aise ho jaye to, hawa mein baithne wale buildings ki price decline ho jayegi.
The question helps in understanding the following vocabulary:
a. decline b. decline in c. decline of d. decline to (3)
The use of public transport like buses, metro etc. will be encouraged. The use of private vehicles will be discouraged. It will be ensured that there is no new construction of private vehicles on the roads of Delhi. It will be ensured that cleanliness is maintained. The use of solar energy will be increased
These palaces will have all the modern facilities including multiple bedrooms and bathrooms, kitchen garden, swimming pool, gym, sauna, health clinic and guest house.
Hindi: Soon these new areas will be residential palaces on the lines of Lucknow and Noida. These palaces will have all
The department has been selected for this award for the first time and its selection is considered to be a big achievement for the department.
Hindi: वर्ष जोड़ वर्ष जोड़ के परीक
The award is the greatest recognition of a physician’s achievements.
Hindi: यह फेलॉवर्श प्रदर्शन करने में विशेष ताकतों के क
The first was Prof. R. K. Malik. He said that Prof. Malik’s name was proposed for this fellowship by Prof. Sachdeva. He added that a committee of eminent scientists had to approve the proposal before it was presented to the board of the institute.
Hindi: According to
In the United States, there are an estimated 311 million residents. However, as the human population has grown, so has the impact on the environment. One example of this is water use. The human population has grown by 43% since 1950, but water use has grown by
The Government should take steps to raise the standard of living at least in the rural areas.
Hindi: Yadi yah samay a gaya to kuchh na kuchh khaane ko pane ke liye jitne chhote bache hain, utna hi ch
The reason is simple, the earth is plagued with a food crisis. Global population is growing at a rapid rate and food production is not growing at the same pace. The result is a shortage of food. The only way out is to eat insects and worms. Insects are highly nutritious and can be
The students have devised a device that helps to harvest clean water from air.
Hindi: यह वर्ष में, मॉन्टרियल कॉलेज़ में छात्रों की
Hindi: वह िलदन कि प्रकार के बछड़ों और सम भाग का पेयले उतारने के लिए तल
Hindi: तो उन्होंने लिए एक मिलियन डॉलर का यहाँ हिन्दी - अभिप्राय व अ
He said that the grasshoppers will be fed to the larvae of the black soldier fly. The larvae will then be dried and made into pellets, which will then be used as chicken feed.
Hindi: محمد اشور رئيس املستشار
It explains how the locals in India eat them. It also speaks about how one can grow them on your own. It's about the nutritional benefits that insects have and why you should eat them. It's about the advantages of eating insects as compared to other foods. It also explains how the insects are
Modi now has a total of 24 ministers in his cabinet, which is one of the largest cabinets in a state in India. The new ministers are from different communities and backgrounds. They include a Dalit, an OBC, a Brahmin, a Muslim, a Jain and a tribal leader.
The oath taking ceremony will be organized on 20th December 2017.
Hindi: यह लोकसभा अध्यक्ष और उनके सदस्यों के सं
They are the members of the Legislative Assembly who have been given ministerial rank. The oath of office and secrecy was given to them by the Governor in the Raj Bhawan in the presence of the Chief Minister and the ministers.
Hindi: अधिकारी कमल
Addressing the crowd, Chief Minister Modi said, “I would like to congratulate you all for the overwhelming support that you have given us. Your faith and support is not only for BJP but also to the entire NDA. With this support, BJP will now be able to serve the entire nation.
That is, two ministers will be the Minister of Finance, and one minister will be the Minister of Industry. The responsibilities of the other ministers will remain unchanged. The cabinet will be expanded once the ministers who have been promoted are approved by the Parliament. If the Parliament approves the ministers who have been promoted
| Hindi: अब तक मुख्य जेल में पुलिस अधिकारी के आरोपों पर जबरदस्त ए
It is said that he raped a girl in 2002 who was a resident of Surat. The girl is still in her teenage and she has lodged a police complaint against him. This case is also being probed by the CBI. In the year 1997, a girl had lodged
He is facing 24 different cases of kidnapping, rape, and criminal intimidation. He was last seen in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh.
Hindi: बाब के बाद कि बाबा, यह लगभ
It is for this reason that he has gone into hiding. The Gujarat government will do whatever they can to give him shelter, whether by throwing him out of India, or by issuing him a fake passport, or by offering him a safe haven in some foreign country. But they will never be able to
A few days ago, the trustees of Asaram Bapu's ashram had filed an FIR against them.
Hindi: अहमदाबाद से भी उन्हें अशाम के बार
A detailed list of all such properties is being prepared, and they will be identified and seized. In addition, action will be taken against properties that are being used for illegal activities.
Hindi: Ab manavta ki mahatv ke karan bhi Asaram ke ashramon ka b
He is a saint. He has a mission of serving the people. The organization he has established is not for profit. It is for the welfare of the whole world. The work of his organization is to provide the people with proper education, proper healthcare, and proper food. We are working to help
It is called the Satsang Ashram. Here, you will find daily togetherness in Satsang, and the sadguru will be present daily. This is the ashram where you will find the sadguru at all times. It is called the Satsang Ash
He has been accused of raping a 16-year-old girl. The girl’s parents had filed a complaint against Asaram Bapu and his son Narayan Sai. The girl had complained that Asaram Bapu had raped her in his Ashram. Asaram Bapu was arrested in
Many of them wear a rudraksha on their necks and they also perform a ritual of peeling a rudraksha after the recitation of a mantra. The aim is to make the rudraksha burst and then to count the number of seeds in it.
Hindi:
The Americans are very happy with the work he is doing and the way he is doing. The Americans have no objection to him coming, if the Indian government has no objection. If the Indian government does not object, he will come. If the Indian government allows, then we will do the work.
Some of the devotees there are still very much attached to him. I know some of his devotees, and they are very close to him.
Hindi: Yahan Bharat mein Asaram ko jail mein hai aur unke shishy ab uski hamesha ke lie chh
He is the one who brought them to God.
Hindi: नयजर्सी अशरम क अशर म अपन स चल रह त है । वह य
of wrongdoing by Washington.
Hindi: जॉन केरी कहते हैं कि अमेरिकी राजनीतिक स्पयरिंग यहाँ
The U.S Secretary of State has said that the U.S would be willing to share more information on its surveillance activities with its allies.
Hindi:
इंग्लिश: अमेरिकी चुनाव वर्ष
He issued a statement saying: "I should have been much more aware of the challenges, which have been raised by the revelations of Edward Snowden, and I should have taken the opportunity to address them much earlier than I did." Hindi:

Hindi: उम्मीदव
The relations between the US and its European allies have been strained over the issue of the NSA's surveillance of European politicians and officials. The NSA had earlier this year admitted that it has been spying on European leaders.
Hindi: यू० सरकार ने
The Senator said he was "very confident that the President and I and others in government have actually learned of some things that had been happening on an automatic pilot" because the ability to collect and store such data had been in place since World War Two.
Hindi: मैं इस
He added: "This is a complicated issue. The president has to make the judgement, balancing security, which is his job, and privacy." Hindi: Vo phir se shahriyaee kamre me hi shiksha aaye. Yahan se vah pradhan vyakt
Hindi: Wo bolta tha "Kuch lafz zabardasti ke karan lage hue hain."
(b) Translate the following text from Hindi to English: English: उनकमान में गरीब कमाने व
And if there is abuse, you will know about it.
Hindi:
President kuch aur dhang se samajh nahi paa rahe hain aur ab wo thora thora kar ke unke dhang ke liye ek tarah ki safai paad sakti
This is the truth.
Hindi: Main aapko yah vishwas deta hoon ki yahan innocent log galtiyon ke dauraan galat nuksaan kyon nahin hua hai. Yeh sach hai.

3. Translate the following text from Hindi
He described one instance where the agency had intercepted a phone call between two al-Qaeda members in Pakistan, which led to the arrest of a terrorist plotter in Boston. He also said that the NSA intercepts 20 terror plots a year.
Hindi: मैं केरी
Hindi: वे: “हमारे लिए, लोग अपने स्वाभाविक निर्माण के साथ अपने द्वार
There is a strand of Islam that has been perverted and distorted, and that is what we are fighting not the faith of a billion people.
Hindi: वर्तमान में एक बाराम आगमन का
What if you were able to read his mind and find out what he was thinking? Hindi: यह क्या हो सकता है कि आप उसकी इस मामले में जब
We've been able to prevent them from carrying out their plans. 
Hindi: Humne kabhi bhi khud ko aur kisi bhi ghatna ko rok nahi paaye, hamare paas kuch bhi sahi rahte rahte hai. Hamne
“There is a lot of concern about this issue in Europe,” said Sen. Benjamin Cardin, D-Md., adding that the lawmakers would be traveling to Europe in the next two weeks. “It’s in our national security interest that we are able to work with our allies on counterterrorism and
In a statement, Murphy said the Senate Intelligence Committee is considering new legislation that would require the United States to provide more information about surveillance to countries that participate in counterterrorism efforts. He said the committee will hold a hearing in the coming weeks to review the legislation. Murphy told reporters that he and others in
"We've got to keep the Europeans with us in this fight."
Hindi: "Isi liye U.S. ke national security ke liye ekdum sahi hai ki Europeans humari anti-terrorism endeavors ke liye hamein saath rakhne ki koshish k
And that they've got to understand that we are also providing them with significant intelligence on terrorist plots and foiling them, that we have to do a better job of communicating about that.
Hindi: मैं यहां यौन बाधा प
The NSA's collection of European data in bulk sparked outrage in Europe and beyond and, for some, renewed doubts about the U.S. government's ability to safeguard the privacy of Europeans.
Hindi: न्यूज रिपोर्ट्स न
German officials said the monitoring of Merkel's phone was a "grave breach of trust" and has prompted a diplomatic dispute with the United States.
Hindi: अनुभव, जो स्लोडन द्वारा साइ
He also said that he doesn't read the newspapers.
Hindi: रेस्थ नेशनल इन्टिलिजेंस डायरेक्टर जेम्स क्लाप
The trip will be preceded by a trip by Murphy and a delegation of staffers to the Middle East.
Hindi: बचे दंग, मरीज सांसद के अधीक्षक के अ
The 10th annual session of the Lower House has been in session since Monday last week.
However, as per the schedule, the Prime Minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with the heads of state of 15 countries.
Hindi: Kuch samay ke liye itineraries ko bana diya hai. Lekin, as per the schedule, the Prime Minister is expected
"There's a lot of work to be done to improve the relationship," Murphy said. "I don't think we're going to have any of the tough love on this trip." "I think our message to them is that we are ready to work with them," Murphy said.
Hindi:
He said the US should be able to provide assurances that it does not monitor European citizens when they're on foreign soil.
Hindi: Vo European leddars ke bich bataya gaya hai ki unke apne logon ko unki yehaee spy program ke baree mein
"We're in a global war on terrorism." Hindi: "Hum hamare rakhwale ki bina karana pasand nahi karte, lekin unhe bhi samajhna chahiye ki hamein kisi aur zimmedari bhi nahi
The trip comes after his return to Washington from a visit to Russia where he said he had a “frank exchange” with President Vladimir Putin about Syria, Iran and other issues.
Hindi: अब, वह अमेरिका, एज
The Municipality has been formed for the welfare of the people. The Municipal Corporation is not for the profit of the contractors. The corporation is not a shop where the contractors can buy the business. The contractors who have been doing business for the last 30-40 years, the corporation has not been
The voting for this took place on 28, February 2018.
Hindi: भविष्य में, द राजनीतक मुख्यमंत्री महाराष्ट्र
However, the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor are from the Congress.
Hindi: यह बदलाव यदि वर्ष 2008 से कोई बदलाव नहीं हु
Despite that, Mamata Banerjee is not giving the opportunity to the genuine leaders to raise their voice against the atrocities taking place in the state. The Congress doesn’t have any other option but to fight this election alone. It is true that we have not given the party workers adequate time to prepare
His words: “This win has given us a lot of confidence.” English to Hindi: त्रिनामोल कांग्रेस के सांसद और यूपीडी जीमी
He said that the BJP is not afraid of Trunamool's muscle power. Even after losing the election, the Congress leader is not leaving the party.
Hindi: वह बताया था कि संंयह नगर
Today, Trinamool Congress has become a political party with a large number of supporters.
Hindi: CPM और Left Front के दलजियों के साथ एक लेखक भी जु
They prayed the District Collector not to take any action against them because of their joining Trunamool.
Hindi: जु ला जु ला यावर निधि नयाय के अनुस
Hindi: राय ने भी दावा किया कि अधिकारी सभी उनके मुख्यमंत्री ममता ब
The Trinamool Congress is bound to be a force to reckon with. The Trinamool Congress will be the new alternative to the CPI(M) and the Left Front. The Trinamool Congress is a force to be reckoned with.
Please send your answers by email to the
It is open to all leaders who give priority to the people. They are welcome to join the Trinamool without any hesitation.
Hindi: एक बार जब आप अपने लगभग ही प
The Trunamool has become the single largest party in the Santhilya Municipal Board. As the single largest party, Trunamool has indicated its willingness to form the ruling party in the board.
Hindi: यह दावा है कि क
This was the first such government takeover by Trinamool since the party came to power in 2011.
Hindi: इसके पार के बाद कि हलड़ीया और नड
The new members are given a bouquet of flowers and a gift. It was reported that in the last five years, 1,000 such flowers were given to new members of the party. When the report was published in newspapers, the Trunamool party called it a publicity stunt by the editors
He said, there are many leaders in the Congress and CPM who are disappointed with the functioning of their parties. They have been in touch with the Trinamool and are waiting for the right time to join the party. Thus, the Trinamool will soon become an all India party
Hindī: Woh kahā ke leader koi bhi party se hatkar Trunamool ke sath mil sakte hain.

Dhanya Vardhan
(vardhan.dhanya@timesgroup.com)

RELATED

All Comments ()

Characters Remaining: 3000
He says the people, including the poor, are very happy with the initiatives taken by the state government, and this is the reason why they are joining Trinamool.
Hindi: Woh yeh kehte hain ki Chief Minister Mamata Banarjee ki sarkar ka j
The CPM alleges that the "intelligence agencies" are behind the intimidation. The Trinamool Congress and the BJP have denied the allegation.
Hindi: मुख्य विपक्षी नेता CPM की ताकत
But I am not afraid of any threats. I have never been in fear. I will continue to fight for democracy. I appeal to the people of Bengal to vote for the Left Front.
Hindi: Logon ko unke chakravyuh mein daalne ke liye Trin
We are not afraid of such criticism. We are ready to accept the popular verdict. Our party is committed to the people. We will not be deterred by such personal criticism. We are only concerned with the welfare of the people. We will continue to make sincere efforts to improve the conditions of the
At the same time, the political party, which is in power, has a responsibility to be accountable for its actions to the people it represents. The people in power cannot use their power to undermine the rights and liberties of people. They have to be accountable and transparent. The people must demand all this
as a smuggler after arrest for trying to smuggle 3 kilos of cocaine from Thailand to Australia.
Hindi: एमीजियल डॉक्टर (खास प्रथम) यूम अ
The Thai Court-of-Appeal has reduced the sentence to 12 days and a fine of 400 baht. The woman was accused of giving police a false statement that she had been assaulted by a taxi driver. The incident happened in June 2015 when the woman was intoxicated and she claims
She was ordered to pay 10,000 baht to each of the three men and a fine of 5,000 baht for the false charge.
The first part of the sentence is: A 24 year old British woman, Stevie Rochelle Bamford, was initially found guilty of
She checked out of the hotel at 11.30am and went to the railway station, where she was seen a few hours later apparently trying to buy a ticket to leave the city. There was no sign of her afterwards.
Hindi: यहां तक वह
She was charged under Section 12 of the Computer Crime Act for spreading false information to public.
Hindi:
English to Hindi Translation
Phuket police interviewed Bamford for two days before she confessed to fabricating the story. She was charged under Section 12 of the Computer Crime Act for spreading
She had to remain in the police cells for a couple of days before the hearing.
Hindi: वह स्थानीय पुलिस केंद्र में लगाकर अपने अं
The 19-year-old was sentenced to 15 days in prison for violating Section 20 of Thailand's immigration law. 
Hindi:
बैमफोर्ड ने जुलाई १४, २०
‘I’m asking for the help of the Australian government,’ he told the Daily Telegraph. ‘It’s a matter of national security. If we don’t do something, it could happen to anyone.’
Hindi: वह हिंदू बालक ह
"She's a very bright girl and very capable. She's a very motivated person and she's a very loving girl. I don't know what's happened to her," he said.
Hindi: टंक्स ने संदेरी ट
"We spoke with authorities in Indonesia and we know she's well and being well looked after."
Hindi: "यह काफी चिंताजनक समय था, परन्तु हमारी उ
He is also being investigated by the police for a separate assault on a taxi driver.
Hindi: Bamford को इस कार्रवाई एवं अंतर्राष्ट्रीय मार्ग
On Saturday, she was found dead in a bathroom of her hotel. The local police said that the cause of death was not yet determined. There were initial reports that she had died after falling off a boat. An autopsy was being conducted to determine the cause of death.
Hindi: ब
The appeal will be heard in the Supreme Court in Bangkok in the coming months. The 34-year-old is due to serve 16 years of a 20-year sentence. Her lawyer said she was “not in good condition” after seeing her in prison. He said: “She was very stressed
It is believed that the recent murder of Smith, 34, was an accident in which she was killed when she was the victim of a robbery.
Hindi: लेकिन के अनुसार हाल ही में , ऑस
It is a crime to publish photos, which hurts the sentiments of another community. The MP said that Bishnoi, who was the first to eat Curma at his residence, later refused to eat it when he saw the photos. He did not eat Curma, but his wife ate it
They give a lot in charity and keep their promises. They are not stingy in giving. They are not quarrelsome. They do not criticize. They do not blame. They do not give pain to others. They have a natural love for all. They are absolutely free from lust, anger
The people of Gohana had given a new direction to the country. The people of Gohana had given a new direction to the country. They have proved that in the country, the Congress is the only alternative to fight against the communal and the fascist forces. The people of Gohana have made it
Hindi: कांग्रेस का विपक्ष गवर्नमेंट की क्षमता को जानने के लिए दिखाए
English: Mr. Jitendra Singh also addressed the meeting. English: Ms. Sheela Kaul also addressed the meeting. English: Mr. Anil Madhav Dave in his address underlined the need to promote community led sanitation. English: The Minister of State for Statistics and Programme Implementation
Hindi: Unhone kaha ki, 10,000 yoddha ko rally ke liye aayenge, jinmein se 2,500 hamare paas se aayenge.
5. Translate the following text from Hindi to English:
English: I have written a letter
The MLA was accompanied by the Block Development and Panchayat Officer, the City Magistrate and the SHO.
Hindi: उपधारण करत छात्राके पहले उपचुनाव
The Chief Minister, Chief Secretary, Director General of Police, DGP of Police, DGP of Fire Service, Principal Secretary of Home, Secretary of Public Grievance Commission, Secretary of Water Resources, Secretary of Electricity Department, Secretary of Rural Development, Secretary of Health, Secretary of Chief Minister's
She had performed at the Cannes film festival wearing a sequined bra and a pair of camouflage shorts, while a part of her abdomen was exposed. Heidi wore the sexy outfit to promote her own clothing line. She is a successful model, an actress, a TV presenter, as well as an entrepreneur.
The world was astonished to see her in such a state.
Hindi: हेदी के लिए कहाँ गया वह जो हिसाब है अनेकों युव
After she was diagnosed with cancer, she took up an extreme diet and exercise regime to combat the illness. But then she began to take a different approach to her body and to the way she looked. She decided to accept her body as it was and she began to appreciate the value of living her life
She had a white dress on, a matching ripped and wrinkled cotton shirt, a pair of black leather boots, and a white and black broad brimmed hat. She wore her hair in a high ponytail and had a pair of large black sunglasses on. She had pale white make up on
The makeup artistes had used 40 different shades of makeup to give her an old and haggard look. They had also used various substances like oats, garlic and mustard oil etc. to give her a wrinkled look. Although the photos have gone viral in the internet, the person behind the
She is none other than the 40 year old supermodel, Christy Turlington. Her look is just like that of an old woman. She was born in 1969 and she is a supermodel, an actress, a film director and a social activist. In 1996 she
On this special occasion, Nita Ambani's family members, business associates, friends, workers and well-wishers have started their celebrations. Nita Ambani is celebrating her birthday with great pomp and show. Nita Ambani is very active on social media and is seen sharing beautiful pictures of
Hindi: इस दिन को विशेष घटना में बदलाव के लिए बहुत रूचि आई है।
Ram Vilas Paswan, a Union minister attending the event, said the Smart City has much to offer tourists and the city can be developed into an "international tourist destination".
Hindi: जोधपुर की शुरुआती जन
A huge stage was set up in the lake area and the match was played under floodlights.
Hindi: उमाद भवन,आप 11 किमी दूर बलसमन्द झील क
The guests will be served with the sweets, namkeen, and fruits.
Hindi: सभ भल वभाग कर ते हब लक ष्मी प जए रह हब ल
To join the function, please contact us on the above given number.
Hindi: ज व स वत क ए एक न ष ट व ण ट र ध आय ग ह. श क र
A dance school in Mumbai has released a video of a group of children dancing to the tune of the song "Sabse Chupa Rahe Hain Tera Naam" from the 1971 Hindi film "Abhimaan". The dance school, named Danceworx Academy of Performing Arts
But there is no official confirmation on it. It is being said that Nita Ambani and her daughter Isha may also perfor
Nita, who is a Bharatnatyam dancer, has been performing for the past 35 years. Isha, on the other hand, is a Kathak dancer and a choreographer. Dance is her passion, and she has been performing and teaching this art for the past 18
One hundred of them are coming by air. The others are coming by train. Fifty of them will come by car. The rest are coming by bus. How many people will come by air? How many will come by train? How many will come by car? How many will come by bus?
The prime minister has also invited the royal families of Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, and Jodhpur.
Hindi: यह जोधपुर के राजा-वंश की राज
All of them will be attending the 13th Annual Sikh Awards 2013 on Friday night. Mittal will be receiving the Business Leader of the Year Award. Cricketing legend Sachin Tendulkar will be receiving an award for Sportsperson of the Year. Bollywood actors Anil Kapoor
Hindi: 32 chartered planes have been booked to ferry the guests to and fro. I can say that 32 chartered planes have been booked to ferry the guests to and fro. I can say that 32 chartered planes have been booked to ferry the guests to and fro. I can
